

Use your imaginations and think of our campus as Augusta Harvardiana, a
(very) distant Roman colony that has survived for two millennia. As a
living example of an imperial urban space, it provides you an
opportunity to move through a built environment that has many points of
similarity to other Roman cities we discussed in class.

Use a map of Harvard’s campus and your daily experience navigating the
campus to write a thoughtful essay that views the University space as a
miniature Roman city and discusses how the campus can be seen to reflect
many Roman urban planning principles.

Points to consider may include the following:

-   the planning aspect -- what type of arrangement(s) or general
    principles does the campus demonstrate?

-   armatures – identify and discuss several, i.e. how they are
    connecting paths

-   campus as forum? – consider the central yard as a Roman forum and
    discuss the correspondences that you see

-   activity spaces – discuss the location of several activity spaces
    (i.e. ritual, spectacle, administrative) around Harvard’s campus and
    compare them to those often seen in Roman cities

-   commemorative or ideological elements – are any of these woven into
    the campus? Discuss whether any such elements (using modern
    ideological notions) are woven into the fabric of the campus and how
    they relate to Roman urban ideologies.

During the Roman Empire’s extensive territorial expansion, various
cities modeled after those in the Roman Empire were built across the
European and African continent. Although distant from these lands, the
small city of Augusta Harvardiana shares many similarities with
traditional Roman cities, from its planning and active spaces to its
commemorative and ideological elements.

The central yard of Augusta Harvardiana is a square, like in most Roman
colonies, which were usually planned before they were built, and
followed a grid pattern of similarly sized blocks around a central area.

When Augusta was initially founded, not many facilities were needed, and
only a few buildings were built within the yard. At the time, a library,
a church, and a small number of class buildings were constructed. The
size and grandeur of these buildings reflect the relative importance at
the time.

Like the Romans, who invested heavily in their deities by building
temples, the founders of Boston, Cambridge, and Harvard believed
religion was important. Thus, the church and the main academic building
do not differ significantly in size.

A difference worth noting, is that while there is only one church within
the yard, in honor of one god, Romans honored many gods. But even though
Christianity and the ancient Roman gods have very little in common, the
architectural style of the buildings shares some resemblance. The inside
columns of the Memorial Church are of Corinthian style, like the “Round
Temple” on the Tiber, and the outside columns are Dorian style, like
many of the temples on the Largo Argentina.

Not all the temples in the Largo Argentina celebrated deities: some of
them instead commemorated military victories and honored the generals
who led them. Similar to Roman culture, American culture also celebrates
the strong people that led them. Within the walls of the yard there is a
statue in honor of John Harvard, the founder of the school, and right
outside, in the Cambridge Common, there is a bigger monument honoring
the bravery of the Founding Fathers. This can be thought of as the
Capitolium of Augusta Harvardiana. One of the gods of the Capitoline
Triad was Jupiter, who was associated with the founding of Rome, since
he supposedly sent Romulus his blessing of protection before the city
was founded.

When Harvard was originally established, it only had a couple of
buildings, similarly to a small town, and nobody expected it to become a
massive institution. That is why around the first edifications a wall
was built, similar to how the Roman colonies used to build a wall around
the forum and other important buildings in the center of the city.

The transitable paths within these confines form a hierarchical grid,
with some main avenues, some wider paths, and some thinner ones. Not
unlike fortifications in Roman settlements, the wall only has openings
that connect to the main axial roads, with intermittent Securitas posts
(which interestingly means security in Latin).

Unlike imperial settlements however, the rest of Augusta Harvardiana
experienced organic growth, similar to that of Rome’s. Outside the walls
the blocks differ in size and the main roads project outwards radially
from the center, instead of having a consistent grid.

Regardless, many comparisons can still be drawn with Roman settlements.
The most striking similarity, which is apparent when visiting Harvard
Square, is that commercial storefronts are interspersed between
residential and academic buildings. Many modern cities have clearly
demarcated zones with different uses: industrial, commercial and
residential. And for each category, there is a gamut of price ranges. In
Cambridge, as it was in Rome, residential and commercial are scattered
throughout, very new and expensive buildings sit next to older ones.

Among these buildings outside the wall we can find the Annenberg Dining
Hall and Sander’s Theater. While not inside the city center of Augusta
Harvardiana, they are still central to everyday life. As students, we do
not go to a market to purchase food, but we do frequent dining halls.
They not only serve as places to eat, but also as places to socialize,
like they did Ancient Rome.

Particular to Harvard’s dining halls is the fact that they host only
certain classes. As a sophomore, one cannot go to Annenberg, unless it
is for breakfast. Naturally, this draws a clear distinction between
freshmen and upperclassmen.

Where this does not happen is classes. As a senior one can be sitting
next to a freshman in lecture. In a class like CS50 a senior can be
sitting next to a freshman. This occurs usually in larger classes, which
are given in Sanders theater.

The theater, like Roman theaters, blur the social lines and allow
everyone to spend time together. Most classes at the big spaces like
Sanders tend to have this in common. And it is not only its use that is
Roman-like. Its construction is too. It was able to be built thanks to
the invention of concrete and bricks and sports big round arches.

Roman civilization has had an incredible influence in our daily lives.
In this essay I talked mainly about ideological and architectural
similarities between Harvard and Rome, but with more time there are many
aspects that one can delve into. Politics would be a good example, given
that our student government is run like a democracy.

To conclude, not everything at Harvard looks Roman, and while Augusta
Harvardiana is an invention, Harvard, Cambridge and many of the cities
and countries across America do draw heavily from Roman culture,
language and planning, all despite being far away from Rome. How our
culture is built on top of previous ones, and how our knowledge builds
on top of many generations of thinkers, is something that we should
learn to appreciate. If anything, this essay should leave you with a
thirst for knowledge, and curious about the many ancient cultures that
have so much influence in our daily lives.


Based on the position(s) you are applying for, why would you like to
apply for that position? What ideas do you have for that particular
position(s)?

I am applying for the positions of President and Vice-President of the
Harvard SEAS SHPE chapter because I am passionate about supporting and
empowering Hispanic engineering students and promoting diversity in the
field of engineering. These leadership roles will enable me to
contribute to our chapter's growth and success, while furthering SHPE's
mission and vision.

As a potential President, I would like to focus on strengthening the
connections between SHPE Headquarters, Harvard SEAS, and our members. I
aim to create a more effective communication channel to facilitate the
sharing of resources, opportunities, and knowledge among these entities.
Additionally, I plan to work closely with our board members to develop
and implement strategic initiatives that will improve the experiences of
our members and foster a more inclusive environment within our chapter.

If I were to be elected as Vice-President, I would support the President
in executing their vision and contribute to the decision-making process.
My primary goal would be to establish and maintain strong relationships
with other student groups within Harvard and Harvard SEAS. By
collaborating with these groups, we can create joint events, workshops,
and initiatives that will not only benefit our members but also
strengthen the sense of community among engineering students at Harvard.

Why do you want to help lead the Harvard SEAS SHPE chapter?

I want to help lead the Harvard SEAS SHPE chapter because I believe in
the power of a strong, supportive community to inspire and empower
individuals to reach their full potential. Throughout my time as a
member of SHPE, I have witnessed the profound impact that our
organization has had on the personal and professional development of our
members.

As a leader in the Harvard SEAS SHPE chapter, I will work to create
opportunities for our members to grow, learn, and thrive in the field of
engineering. I am committed to fostering an inclusive and supportive
environment that encourages open dialogue, collaboration, and the
celebration of our members' diverse backgrounds and perspectives.

Furthermore, I am passionate about increasing representation and
diversity within the engineering field. By leading the Harvard SEAS SHPE
chapter, I hope to inspire future generations of Hispanic engineers and
advocate for policies and initiatives that break down barriers and
create equal opportunities for all.

In conclusion, my desire to help lead the Harvard SEAS SHPE chapter
stems from my passion for empowering Hispanic engineering students,
promoting diversity in the field, and contributing to the continued
growth and success of our community.


For the summer I have various plans that align with my different
interests: software development, entrepreneurship, teaching, and
leadership. At the beginning of the summer, I will work as a software
development engineer at Amazon in Seattle. I have not yet been assigned
an organization within the company, so I do not know what team I will
join, but I am excited to design, code, and test real software while
working with experienced engineers.

I also plan to work on my startup, Recyco, as we approach the launch of
our MVP. By the start of summer, we will have already launched our
recycling analytics platform together with our clients and partners, so
we will aim to increase our marketing efforts and polish all the
existing functionality. If the development bandwidth is enough, I would
like to implement some of the upcoming products in the development
roadmap, which includes a marketplace for post-consumer recycled
materials, and a marketplace for recycling credits (similar to carbon
credits, but for recyclable materials).

In addition to my work-related goals, I hope to accomplish some personal
ones as well. I want to resume learning Mandarin and complete an
independent study on machine learning. I will also continue strength
training to recover from spinal fusion surgery. Finally, I would like to
contribute to the writing of an introductory quantitative finance
textbook designed to provide support for STAT 170 students.

I have applied to participate in two teaching programs during August
after my internship concludes. The first one would involve traveling to
Taiwan for two weeks to give lectures to high school students and
organize exciting extracurricular activities for students to enjoy
outside the classroom. My lectures will cover foundational elements of
probability theory, including key concepts such as independent events,
conditional probability, and Bayes’ theorem. I will also dive into
practical applications of probability and statistics that we encounter
daily, such as forecasting weather, predicting disease transmission, and
targeting social media advertisements.

The second program would take place just before the opening of the fall
semester. I would be part of the student leadership team of the
First-Year International Program at Harvard, a one-week orientation
program that welcomes international students from the Class of 2027,
right before general orientation for all students. We introduce them to
Harvard and we help them adjust to life in the United States. Also, as
part of the social committee, I would be involved in organizing fun
activities for the students to meet each other and connect.

Overall, I am committed to engaging in diverse experiences that align
with my interests and goals. Specifically, I will concentrate on
advancing my skills as a software engineer, expanding upon my startup
venture, cultivating personal growth opportunities, sharing my knowledge
and passion for statistics and probability with others, and taking on
leadership roles to mentor new Harvard students.


How to Better Understand the World

An Introduction to Surveying and Statistics

[130.png]

1. Course Description

The purpose of this course is to ignite the innate curiosity within each
student, empowering them to comprehend and interpret the world through
the lens of statistics. We will explore fundamental techniques that
statisticians employ, while also delving into the underlying principles
of human decision-making. Ultimately, this course aims to nurture
students' confidence in their ability to harness the power of
statistics, enabling them to tackle even the most complex challenges
with informed and insightful perspectives. By the end of this course,
students will have gained a solid foundation in statistical thinking,
data analysis, and interpretation, which will be valuable in their
academic and professional lives. The wide range of applications and
examples will help engage students and demonstrate the practical
relevance of statistics in various fields.

2. Introduction

Global-Side Mentor

+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| INSERT A PHOTO OF  | Name: Iñaki Arango                              |
| YOURSELF HERE      |                                                 |
|                    | University/ Year / Major: Harvard University    |
|                    | ‘25 (Double Major in Computer Science and       |
|                    | Statistics)                                     |
|                    |                                                 |
|                    | Email: inakiarango@college.harvard.edu          |
|                    |                                                 |
|                    | Introduction:                                   |
+====================+=================================================+
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+

Japan-Side Mentor

+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| INSERT A PHOTO OF  | Name:                                           |
| YOURSELF HERE      |                                                 |
|                    | University/ Year / Major:                       |
|                    |                                                 |
|                    | Email:                                          |
|                    |                                                 |
|                    | Introduction:                                   |
+====================+=================================================+
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+

3. Pre-Assignment

Please watch these videos and be prepared for a casual discussion about
them on the first day! (Bring any questions you have!)

A brief intro to Probability and Statistics:

​​https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zouPoc49xbk

What is “Statistics”?:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sxQaBpKfDRk

4. Seminar Outline

DAY 1: Introductions, and Intro to Statistics, Data Types, and
Probability Theory

I.  Course introduction and objectives

II. Importance of statistics in the real world

    A.  Medical studies

    B.  Sports statistics

    C.  Weather forecasting

    D.  Market research

    E.  Quality control in manufacturing

    F.  Opinion polls and surveys (Government, corporate, etc.)

III. Explain the building blocks of statistics (Give examples)

     A.  What is a model and what is data, how do you go from one to the
         other

     B.  Combination (nCk, nPk)

         1.  I have 20 students in a classroom and I we are playing
             football, so I want to split them into 2 teams. How many
             ways are there of doing that?

         2.  I have 10 performances at a dance show. How many sho orders
             are possible?

         3.  Why is the answer to the two questions before different?
             We’ll look at that later.

     C.  Probability

         1.  I roll 2 6-sided dice. How likely am I to get 12? Is it the
             same probability of getting 6?

IV. Detailed intro to combination

    A.  N Choose K

    B.  N Permute K

V.  Detailed intro to probability

    A.  Definition of simple probability

    B.  The complement trick

VI. Introduction to probability theory: independent events, conditional
    probability, and Bayes' theorem

VII. Activity: Probability in games of chance (dice, coins, cards)

     A.  There are 20 people at a chess club on a certain day. They each
         find opponents and start playing. How many possibilities are
         there for how they are matched up, assuming in each game it
         does matter who has the white pieces (in a chess game one
         player has the white pieces and the other player has the black
         pieces)?

     B.  To fulfill the requirements for a certain degree, a student can
         choose to take any 7 out of a list of 20 courses, with the
         constraint that at least 1 of the 7 courses must be a
         statistics course. Suppose that 5 of the 20 courses are
         statistics courses.

         1.  How many choices are there for which 7 courses to take?

         2.  Explain intuitively why the answer to (a) is not C(5,1) *
             C(19, 6.)

DAY 2: Data Visualization, Descriptive Statistics, and Applications in
Sports

I.  Icebreaker

II. Introduction to data visualization

III. Principles of effective data visualization

IV. Types of charts and graphs: bar charts, pie charts, line graphs,
    histograms, and scatter plots

V.  Measures of central tendency: mean, median, and mode

VI. Measures of dispersion: range, variance, and standard deviation

VII. Activity: Analyzing sports statistics and creating visualizations

     A.  Have students use a website to find raw data about the
         teams/players and come up with ideas for potential questions
         they have about the data, and what interesting ways they think
         of presenting the information.

DAY 3: Probability, Sampling, and Medical Statistics

I.  Icebreaker activity

II. Give time to finish the last activity if necessary.

III. What are the different ways in which we collect data?

     A.  Introduction to sampling techniques: random, systematic,
         stratified, and cluster sampling

     B.  Very brief and simple explanation about sampling distributions
         and the Central Limit Theorem -> how the data collected for
         very few explains the entire population.

IV. Medical statistics: evaluating treatments, identifying risk factors,
    and predicting patient outcomes

V.  Activity: Conduct a small-scale survey with their classmates to try
    and answer the questions from the previous class and start to make a
    presentation about what they found.

Day 4: Putting Ideas into Action

I.  Icebreaker

II. Review of key concepts and techniques

III. Introduction to inferential statistics

IV. Confidence intervals and hypothesis testing

V.  Real-world applications of statistics: social media, big data,
    weather forecasting, and financial modeling

VI. Group activity: Finish the presentation from the last class and
    present it to the other groups.

VII. Reflection and discussion: Empowering students to apply statistical
     thinking in their daily lives

     A.  Question what you are told (not disrespectfully)

     B.  Dig deeper (do your own research)

     C.  Care about others. If you find out something new that could
         help others, share it.

5. Post-Assignment

Video/Reading: (May give additional optional reading throughout course)

If you are interested in learning broader statistics topics, I recommend
this playlist by the channel CrashCourse:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNM_Y-bUAhblSAdWRnmBUcr

If you are interested in learning more about a specific topic, you can
come and talk to me, and I can recommend a resource specific to that
topic and tailored to your background!

6. Vocabulary List

Statistics, Data, Qualitative, Quantitative, Nominal, Ordinal, Interval,
Ratio, Probability, Visualization, Mean, Median, Mode, Variance,
Regression


I would be excited to present a lecture on the fascinating topic of
probability and statistics and how they impact our daily lives. The
lecture would begin by providing a brief overview of the foundational
elements of probability theory, including key concepts such as
independent events, conditional probability, and Bayes' theorem.

We would go over the importance of appropriate visualizations, and how
they can help us make better sense of the data.

Then, we would delve into real-world applications of probability and
statistics that many people encounter on a regular basis, but may not
realize the underlying principles at work.

Some examples may include:

- Probability in games of chance: Showcasing the probabilities involved
in games such as rolling dice, flipping coins, and drawing cards. It
could be a fun visual way of introducing them to the basic concepts.

- Probability in sports: Sports are something that likely a lot of
students will be interested in. We could discuss how statistics are used
to evaluate the players and make strategic decisions in games.

- Medical statistics: We can discuss how researchers use statistical
analysis to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment, identify risk
factors for diseases, and make predictions about patients' outcomes. We
can also talk about how information collected from real-world samples
can be used to model the future spread of disease.

- Social media and big data: We can discuss how companies use
information collected about users to personalize ads, recommends
products/videos/books, and predict user behavior.

- Other examples could include weather forecasting and financial
modeling.

Providing a wide range of applications and examples increases the
chances that every student will find at least one interesting, and will
remain reneged throughout the lecture.

We would discuss how probability and statistics help us make informed
decisions and predictions, and how they play a crucial role in many
industries and fields. I would aim to make the content accessible to a
general audience, while also providing external resources for an
interested audience with a more technical background. Overall, my goal
would be to share my passion for probability and statistics and
demonstrate the practical relevance of this exciting field.


2024 GEM Bio Financial Assistance Application

- Justification for financial assistance: Please explain your reason(s)
for applying for financial assistance and/or explain why attending the
conference in person is prohibitive.

As an international student from Argentina, attending the GEM Workshop
is an incredible opportunity, but it also presents significant financial
challenges. Argentina's current economic instability, characterized by
high inflation rates and currency devaluation, has greatly limited my
family's ability to financially support my education in the United
States.

I have been working diligently to secure internships and research
opportunities to help fund my studies, but these efforts fall short of
covering the substantial costs associated with attending an
international conference like GEM. The expenses, including international
travel, accommodation, and registration fees, are considerably higher
than what I can afford on my own, especially given the workshop's
location in Vienna, Austria.

The GEM Workshop offers a unique platform for me to engage with the
global scientific community, present my research, and gain valuable
insights that are crucial for my academic and professional growth.
However, without financial assistance, the cost of attendance is
prohibitive, and I risk missing out on this transformative opportunity
that closely aligns with my long-term goals.

Receiving financial support would be a game-changer, allowing me to
fully immerse myself in the conference experience without the constant
worry of financial strain. It would enable me to focus on maximizing the
learning and networking opportunities the workshop provides, rather than
being burdened by the financial repercussions.

- Motivation statement: Please give specific examples of how attending
the workshop will advance your professional career.

Attending the GEM Workshop would be a transformative experience for me
as a young researcher. My work on "Multi-Objective Generative AI for
Designing Novel Brain-Targeting Small Molecules" represents my first
substantial academic research experience, and it has ignited a strong
interest in potentially pursuing a PhD in the future. This project has
opened my eyes to the incredible potential of combining computational
methods with biology to make a meaningful impact on people's lives.

By presenting my research at such a prestigious international
conference, I hope to receive invaluable feedback and insights from
experts in the field. Their input could significantly refine my approach
and elevate the quality of my future research endeavors. Moreover, the
workshop provides a unique opportunity to connect with other passionate
individuals who share my enthusiasm for using computational tools to
advance biological research and ultimately improve patient outcomes.

Many of the invited speakers and panelists have done, or are doing,
things that I am extremely interested in, and that I want to do in the
future. I am interested in meeting with Rohit Singh, and discussing how
he found his computational biology skills useful for finance, and why he
decided to start a company for predicting default rates. I want to talk
to Neolia Ferruz, and learn how her lab is using generative models for
designing proteins, which could potentially be very applicable to the
use of diffusion models for de novo drug design. I would also like to
connect with Gevorg Grigoryan, and hear the story of how he spun out his
research into a successful startup. Finally, I want to meet with Alex
Rives and understand how he started two companies that went public
before he even got his PhD. I believe everyone at the conference has a
different story to tell, with a different learning to be made, and I
would like to tell mine.

The discussions, sessions, and networking opportunities at the
conference will be incredibly valuable for a developing researcher like
me. It is an ideal place to explore my growing interest in research and
better understand whether a PhD aligns with my long-term goals. This
experience could be a defining moment in my academic journey, providing
me with the clarity and direction I need at this early but critical
stage.

Above all, the GEM Workshop will allow me to immerse myself in a
community of like-minded individuals who share my goals and aspirations.
The connections and collaborations I establish there have the potential
to shape my entire future in this field, and I am excited about the
prospect of being part of such a vibrant and impactful community.

- Diversity statement: Please give specific examples of how you will
contribute to GEM’s commitment to DEI.

I bring a unique perspective shaped by my cultural background and
experiences navigating the challenges of pursuing an education in a
field where Hispanic representation remains low. Growing up in
Argentina, I witnessed firsthand the transformative power of technology
and the importance of diversity in driving innovation that benefits
society as a whole.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume I must love soccer, asados,
and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. Indeed, I
do, but what many probably don't know is that since I was thirteen, I
have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina, your savings consistently lose value due to chronic
inflation. Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come
undone, even if you work hard. This very situation, however, also makes
us appreciate the urgency of addressing problems and makes us experts at
thinking outside the box to find cheaper and more practical solutions so
that everyone can benefit from them.

Attending the GEM workshop will allow me to contribute to the diversity
of voices and ideas present at the conference. I am committed to
actively participating in discussions, asking thought-provoking
questions, and sharing insights from my own research journey. By
bringing my perspective as a Latin American researcher to the table, I
hope to enrich the conversations and promote a more inclusive dialogue
that considers the global impact of generative ML in biology.

Furthermore, I have a strong track record of advocating for diversity
and inclusion in STEM. As the President of the Harvard SEAS Chapter of
the Society of Professional Hispanic Engineers (SHPE), I spearheaded
initiatives to promote STEM among Hispanic students and connect them
with role models in industry and academia. I am passionate about
mentoring and inspiring the next generation of diverse leaders in STEM.

Attending the GEM workshop will provide me with a platform to continue
these efforts. I plan to actively engage with underrepresented
attendees, fostering a sense of community and belonging. I will share my
experiences and strategies for overcoming barriers as a minority in
STEM, with the aim of empowering others to pursue their dreams and make
their mark in this field.

Moreover, I am committed to bringing the knowledge and insights gained
from the workshop back to my own communities. I will leverage my
leadership roles in SHPE and other diversity-focused organizations to
disseminate the latest advancements in generative ML and biology to a
broader audience. By serving as a bridge between the cutting-edge
research presented at GEM and the diverse communities I am part of, I
aim to inspire and enable more underrepresented individuals to pursue
careers at the intersection of computation and biology.

I look forward to contributing this perspective as I advance my
knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers in graduate
classes. I am eager to learn from their experiences and contribute to
their research efforts, bringing the unique insights I have gained from
growing up in Argentina and navigating the challenges of being a
minority in STEM.


1. Why are you interested in a career on the buy side? Please limit your
response to 250 words or less.

I'm drawn to a career on the buy side for several interconnected
reasons. First and foremost, I deeply believe in the power of investing
in good ideas and strong businesses, providing them the resources they
need to flourish. This philosophy was reinforced during my time at a VC
firm, where I had the opportunity to identify promising founders and
companies and to work alongside them to magnify their societal impact.

Additionally, I am intrigued by the analytical and contrarian aspects of
the public market. The most rewarding investments often demand a
viewpoint significantly divergent from market consensus, necessitating
not just deep subject knowledge but also a keen understanding of
historical patterns, strong intuition, and the foresight to anticipate
future trends. These skills, which I am eager to hone, are invaluable
both within and beyond the realm of investing.

This blend of identifying long-term value and employing rigorous
analysis resonates with me. It aligns not just with my skills but also
with my broader worldview, making a buy-side career an ideal match for
my professional aspirations.

2. What is one book you have read outside of classwork recently and what
did you learn from it? Please limit your response to 250 words or less.

I recently started reading "This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly" by Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff. The book
provides an analysis of financial crises over the last 800 years,
offering valuable insights into their cyclical nature. One of the
primary lessons I drew from the book is that financial crises are more
common than generally believed, cutting across different geographies and
economic statuses.

The book emphasizes how even well-developed financial systems can sit
precariously on the edge of stability for years before a crisis triggers
their downfall. The authors call out the negligence of economic
policymakers, who often ignore red flags, falsely believing their
situation is immune to historical patterns. They believe “this time is
different”. This insight was particularly impactful for me because it
highlighted the critical importance of due diligence and the dangers of
complacency in investment activities.

The book has fundamentally deepened my understanding of market dynamics
and the inherent risks involved, reinforcing my passion for an
analytical and rigorous approach to investing. It served as a powerful
reminder that thorough historical understanding and ongoing vigilance
are indispensable in the investment world.

3. What was the last thing you taught yourself? Please limit your
response to 250 words or less.

The last skill I taught myself was climbing / bouldering. What attracted
me to this sport was the opportunity to focus on something tangible and
measurable. In climbing, the feedback is immediate. Every move you make
translates instantly into progress or a lesson learned, which I find
incredibly satisfying.

One of the aspects of climbing that drives me to push myself is the need
for persistent effort to achieve specific goals. Whether it is
completing a challenging route or improving my technique, the sport
demands that I give my best at all times.The sense of achievement I feel
after completing a climb is exhilarating and makes me excited about the
potential next routes to try.

Many times the best use of my time is to sit on the ground, thinking
about the routes that would use the least amount of energy and take me
the furthest up. Learning to climb and boulder has not only been a
physical challenge but also a mental one that has honed my
problem-solving and analytical abilities, which I am very grateful for.

4. If money were not a concern, what would be your dream profession?
Please limit your response to 250 words or less.

If money were not a concern, my dream profession would be twofold:
first, as an entrepreneur, and second, as a public servant in
Argentina's national government. Being an entrepreneur appeals to me
because it combines the thrill of innovation with the responsibility of
impacting lives. It's a platform to implement change, solve problems,
and create value in ways that existing institutions cannot. This aligns
well with my passion for spotting opportunities and nurturing them into
something transformative.

Beyond entrepreneurship, I have a strong desire to contribute to public
service in Argentina, my home country. My ultimate aim is to leverage my
skills and knowledge to give back to a community that has given me so
much. I believe that getting involved in national governance would
enable me to make widespread and lasting impact, addressing systemic
issues that hinder our progress. Whether it's improving education,
driving sustainable economic growth, or fostering technological
innovation, I see a future where I can utilize my skills for the greater
good of the Argentinian people.

So, in an ideal world without financial constraints, I would transition
from entrepreneurship to public service, combining the agility and
innovation of the private sector with the scale and reach of the
government to create meaningful change.


DAY 1: Introductions, and Intro to Statistics, Data Types, and
Probability Theory

I.  Course introduction and objectives

II. Importance of statistics in the real world

    A.  Medical studies

    B.  Sports statistics

    C.  Weather forecasting

    D.  Market research

    E.  Quality control in manufacturing

    F.  Opinion polls and surveys (Government, corporate, etc.)

III. Explain the building blocks of statistics (Give examples)

     A.  What is a model and what is data, how do you go from one to the
         other

     B.  Combination (nCk, nPk)

         1.  I have 20 students in a classroom and we are playing
             football, so I want to split them into 2 teams. How many
             ways are there of doing that?

         2.  I have 10 performances at a dance show. How many show
             orders are possible?

         3.  Why is the answer to the two questions before different?
             We’ll look at that later.

     C.  Probability

         1.  I roll 2 6-sided dice. How likely am I to get 12? Is it the
             same probability of getting 6?

IV. Detailed intro to combination

    A.  N Choose K

    B.  N Permute K

V.  Detailed intro to probability

    A.  Definition of simple probability

    B.  The complement trick

VI. Introduction to probability theory: independent events, conditional
    probability, and Bayes' theorem

VII. Activity: Probability in games of chance (dice, coins, cards)

     A.  There are 20 people at a chess club on a certain day. They each
         find opponents and start playing. How many possibilities are
         there for how they are matched up, assuming in each game it
         does matter who has the white pieces (in a chess game one
         player has the white pieces and the other player has the black
         pieces)?

     B.  To fulfill the requirements for a certain degree, a student can
         choose to take any 7 out of a list of 20 courses, with the
         constraint that at least 1 of the 7 courses must be a
         statistics course. Suppose that 5 of the 20 courses are
         statistics courses.

         1.  How many choices are there for which 7 courses to take?

         2.  Explain intuitively why the answer to (a) is not C(5,1) *
             C(19, 6.)

DAY 2: Data Visualization, Descriptive Statistics, and Applications in
Sports

I.  Icebreaker

II. Introduction to data visualization

III. Principles of effective data visualization

IV. Types of charts and graphs: bar charts, pie charts, line graphs,
    histograms, and scatter plots

V.  Measures of central tendency: mean, median, and mode

VI. Measures of dispersion: range, variance, and standard deviation

VII. Activity: Analyzing sports statistics and creating visualizations

     A.  Have students use a website to find raw data about the
         teams/players and come up with ideas for potential questions
         they have about the data, and what interesting ways they think
         of presenting the information.

DAY 3: Probability, Sampling, and Medical Statistics

I.  Icebreaker activity

II. Give time to finish the last activity if necessary.

III. What are the different ways in which we collect data?

     A.  Introduction to sampling techniques: random, systematic,
         stratified, and cluster sampling

     B.  Very brief and simple explanation about sampling distributions
         and the Central Limit Theorem -> how the data collected for
         very few explains the entire population.

IV. Medical statistics: evaluating treatments, identifying risk factors,
    and predicting patient outcomes

V.  Activity: Conduct a small-scale survey with their classmates to try
    and answer the questions from the previous class and start to make a
    presentation about what they found.

Day 4: Putting Ideas into Action

I.  Icebreaker

II. Review of key concepts and techniques

III. Introduction to inferential statistics

IV. Confidence intervals and hypothesis testing

V.  Real-world applications of statistics: social media, big data,
    weather forecasting, and financial modeling

VI. Group activity: Finish the presentation from the last class and
    present it to the other groups.

VII. Reflection and discussion: Empowering students to apply statistical
     thinking in their daily lives

     A.  Question what you are told (not disrespectfully)

     B.  Dig deeper (do your own research)

     C.  Care about others. If you find out something new that could
         help others, share it.


Abstract

If you are required to include an abstract of your paper, write a single
paragraph that concisely and accurately summarizes the content of your
paper. Abstracts usually contain no more than 250 words. Do not indent
the first line of the abstract.

 

Your Full Title of Your Paper

The title of your paper should summarize the main idea of your paper and
identify the variables or issues under investigation and the
relationship between them. Keep the title as succinct as possible, but
include essential terms that will make your topic known to the reader.

Start each paragraph of the body of your paper indented with one tab key
(1/2 inch). Use one inch margins on all sides. Double-space throughout
your paper. Do not add a space between paragraphs. Only add one space
after punctuation at the end of a sentence.

APA has expanded the fonts that are acceptable for student papers. You
can choose 12-point Times New Roman or 11-point Georgia for hard copy
papers, or 11-point Arial or 11-point Calibri 11 for papers to be read
electronically. For computer code, APA suggests using 10-point Lucida
Console or 10-point Courier New. Use the same font throughout your
paper.

There are up to 5 levels of headings in APA Style papers. All headings
use title case (major words are capitalized). The first level is used to
break up your paper into major portions. First level headings are
centered and bolded. Second level headings are flush left and use a bold
font. Level 3 headings are flush left and use bold italics. Level 4
headings are indented one tab, bold font, and end with a period. The
text begins on the same line and continues as a regular paragraph for
Level 4 headings. Level 5 headings are similar to Level 4, but use bold
italics.

Insert a page break at the end of the body of your paper to start a new
page for the Reference list. The reference list includes citations for
all recoverable sources cited in the body of your paper. Personal
communications, such as private letters or interviews, or non-recorded
events are not included. References should be alphabetized, and use a
hanging indent.

 

References

Ash, P. (2016). School shootings and mental illness. In L. H. Gold & R.
I. Simon (Eds.), Gun violence and mental illness (pp. 105-26). American
Psychiatric Association.

Couzin-Frankel, J. (2019). Questions churn about vaping’s long-term
risks. Science, 366(6469), 1059–1060.
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.366.6469.1059

Denning, P., & Little, J. (2017). Over the influence: The harm reduction
guide to controlling your drug and alcohol use (2nd ed.). Guilford
Press.

Earp, J. (Director) & Katz, J. (Presenter) (2013). Tough guise 2:
Violence, manhood & American culture [Film; educational DVD]. Media
Education Foundation.

Howard, J. (2019, December 16). Vaping linked with long-term risk of
respiratory disease in new study. CNN.
https://www.cnn.com/2019/12/16/health/vaping-respiratory-disease-study/index.html

Lim, F., Paguirigan, M., & Cernivani, D. (2018). Delivering
LGBTQ-sensitive care. Nursing Critical Care, 13(4), 14–19.
https://doi.org/10.1097/01.CCN.0000534918.70677.9c

McKee, A. (2015, May 15). Introduction to criminal justice, section 1.2
[Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/ZXnp8OQwgH8

Merriam-Webster. (n.d.). Insanity. In Merriam-Webster.com dictionary.
Retrieved January 9, 2020, from
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/insanity

Weissinger, S. E., & Mack, D. (Eds.). (2018). Law enforcement in the age
of Black Lives Matter: Policing black and brown bodies. Lexington Books.

World Health Organization. (2018, December). Gaming disorder.
https://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/gaming-disorder/


Please list any other information or preferences here. Remember that all
information put onto this sheet will be taken as preferences only and no
particular rooms or suites can be guaranteed.

I prefer to generally not have loud music playing in the room,
especially if I’m studying, but it’s mostly fine other times.

I would prefer if I shared a bathroom with my roomates and not have a
communal bathroom.

Do you participate (or plan to participate) in any sports, clubs, or
activities on campus?

At Rice I was involved in my college’s (same as House) student
government and remodelation committee. I also did research for an
investment fund focused on public equities within the energy transition
space.

I haven’t yet decided what I want to become involved in at Harvard but
I’m open to basically anything that peaks my interest. Things that I
have found so far are Harvard Ventures, the Computing Contest Club and
the Squash Club. I really enjoy playing padel (different from paddle)
and going to the gym (for fun and to recover from surgery). I don’t
believe there are padel courts at Harvard but there are similar sports
like Squash that I would like to learn.

I also plan to continue developing my own recycling startup, Recyco, and
to participate in the Harvard Climate Entrepreneur’s Circle incubation
program.

What are your academic interests?

I’m interested in Computer Science, Math and Economics. I will probably
pursue Computer Science (or Applied Math) as my main major, but haven’t
yet decided. I am open to exploring anything (even loosely) related.
Within Computer Science, there are 3 topics that especially interest me:
Computational genomics, "AI" (Machine learning as well other techniques)
and graphics/simulations (2D and 3D).

I am also interested in learning more about the ways in which technology
can have socially beneficial applications (like the work at EconCS group
or Center for Research on Computation and Society). I believe their work
combining computer simulations with markets and social systems could
have a positive impact and will allow me to begin to understand how
states can leverage technology to make better decisions.

I would like to learng more about how technology can be used to delay it
and ultimately stop it. Within this area, I found Professor Na Li’s
(Department of Electrical Engineering and Applied Mathematics) research
on energy grids particularly interesting. She is also woring on
Carbonara, a startup that provides other decarbonization startups with
information they need to make better decisions.

I don’t have a specific career plan in mind, but I’m interested in
entrepreneurship and research. I really enjoyed my time working as a
software engineer while interning at startups and have really liked the
experience of starting my own this summer. I don’t have much experience
in CS research but would like to try.

Completely independent from that, I would like to continue studying
Chinese. I took one semester and loved it but my workload became to
heavy afterwards and I had to stop :(

Is there any other info about yourself that may be important for a
potential roommate to know?

I am from Argentina but spent last year at Rice University so I’m pretty
new here. I will probably be a bit shy at the beginning until I get
accustomed to Harvard but would love to meet as many new people as I can
:)

Some other things that I like to do but didn’t have a place to put are:

– Hanging out with friends in my room: Some of the times I enjoy the
most are just chilling and talking with friends without a need to be
doing anything in particular. This can happen in any relatively relaxed
environment (eg. room, restaurant, common area). If there's food,
better. I like all foods.

– Political/Philosophical discussions: I definitely enjoy talking with
people and discussing their political and philosophical beliefs. As long
as it respectful, I find them some of the most fulfilling conversations.

– Playing video games: I usually play PC or phone games with friends. I
like creative/construction, shooters, strategy and puzzles.

– Exploring the city

– Going to parties: I personally prefer kickbacks or something more
relaxed but enjoy both.

– Spending time outdoors: I like spending time outdoors, but not
necessarily just walking. I like to be doing another things at the same
time (eg. eating, playing a sport, talking).


Cómo subirlo?

https://www.ceoforonemonth.com/profile/

Mail: arangoinaki@gmail.com

Contraseña: anonymusFTWC2002!

1.  Ir a “Motivational Letter”

2.  Click on “Edit your profile”

3.  Copiar y pegar el texto en la página

4.  Apretar “Save”

Ideas

La posibilidad de brindar mis opiniones, conocimiento e ideas a los
proyectos de otras personas.

Mi trabajo en Reindi y en Glös me ayudaron a desarrollar una mejor idea
de cómo integrar varias perspectivas externas a un proyecto o
desarrollo. Resulta difícil cuando esas perspectivas provienen de
personas muy distintas y son, a veces, conflictivas

Creo que es crucial para el éxito de los clientes que puedan mantenerse
flexibles. Esto implica ayudarlos a tomar decisiones críticas, sobre
cómo mutar sus operaciones para mantenerse creciendo.

Mis desarrollos inclusivos se alinean con el valor central de adecco de
responsabilidad.

Mi espíritu emprendedor y de toma de decisiones se alínea con el valor
central de adecco de emprendedurismo.

LEADING

Links

https://www.ceoforonemonth.com/write-perfect-cover-letter/

https://www.adeccogroup.com/our-company/core-values/

https://www.adeccogroup.be/our-company/mission/

https://www.adeccogroup.be/our-company/vision/

https://www.ceoforonemonth.com/

Texto

Dear Hiring Team,

I am applying for the position of CEO for One Month. As a recent
graduate of Escuela Técnica ORT, I am eager to take on the role of
shadowing the regional CEO of Adecco. I am creative and tech-savvy, and
like to mix my knowledge and ideas with the ones of others to create
more powerful and far-reaching ones. I am efficient, can meet deadlines,
and quickly draft up proposals for new projects. I am excited to see how
my skills can be applied to Adecco’s work. Using my technical and
organizational skills, I am excited about the idea of assisting Adecco,
a place that helps young people live fulfilling lives.

I was recently a Project Manager at Reindi and now currently at Artra,
where I djdjdj. In addition, I provide technical knowledge

I was recently the Social Media Manager at Retail Ocean, where I managed
content calendars, wrote and edited posts, and moderated comments on
social media channels. In addition, I served as the voice of the store,
interacting with customers virtually. I scheduled when content was going
to be posted, utilizing my organizational and critical thinking skills
to publish shareable content. Through my efforts I kept customers happy
and attracted new visitors.

I have experience leading a team

I have experience with both pitching ideas and taking instruction, and I
can seamlessly transition from writing for one platform to another. I am
passionate about blending visual elements with text and can incorporate
both into posts. With a goal to increase Retail Ocean's engagement on
social media, I created a new social media strategy. It increased
Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook activity by 70% in a month.

Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to hearing
from you, in addition to learning more about the role and working
alongside Adecco's CEO. Varied experiences are essential to my growth,
and will give me opportunities to apply my skills, sjdhdksbs, and grow
as a young professional.

Sincerely,

Texto con Guille’s edits

But first, a few observations:

-   There is a fundamental difference between being Captain of a SHIP (=
    a manager of a business unit or a project) and Admiral of a fleet (=
    a CEO). Some very good Captains may EVOLVE into acquiring the skills
    to become CEOs, but in general, good Captains make terrible
    Admirals. We can talk about this when you get bored, but there is a
    substantial qualitative difference between what Captains do and what
    Admirals do.

    -   Captains must deal with the safety, efficiency, effectiveness of
        the operation of their ship. They are responsible for assets
        (the ship, supplies, etc), personnel and morale, planning,
        readiness and execution.. In battle, they must focus on
        achieving the objectives that have been handed to them. They
        EXECUTE. They try to get outstanding results with mediocre
        people and equipment… In other words (at a smaller scale), the
        kind of things that you, as a project manager, worry about.

    -   Admirals on the other hand think strategically, they watch,
        analyze, interpret very broad situations and build future
        scenarios, and from those, lay out strategy about operations,
        asset deployment, personnel, … ; communicates that strategy to
        his/her underlings (captains = executives, managers, …),
        negotiates with politicians (= regulatory agencies, trade
        associations, competitors and allies,... ) to wins WARS (not
        just battles).

-   My critique of your letter as you wrote is based on the assumption
    that the selection committee is aware of the differences I just
    outlined and will be looking for candidates that do too.

    -   In your letter you are telling them: I am young but I have
        gathered valuable experience as a Captain of small ships, please
        let me play CEO.

    -   You cite learning and experiences as project manager, as a
        content editor/producer, etc. that are all good and valuable (in
        fact, they are OUTSTANDING for a 18 year old) that would
        position well to shadow one of their managers, but their CEO?
        Not quite...

    -   I don’t think they will persuaded, they would want to see that
        you have some understanding of what a CEO is, that you have some
        interesting INSIGHTS about why you want to shadow their CEO, in
        other words that you have the required awareness, que tenes
        “pasta de CEO”.

-   So, if you believe the above, then we are left with the question:
    (aside form being a cool experience, travel and fun, learning, good
    for your CV, ….) WHY DO YOU WANT TO LEARN THE CEO PERSPECTIVE?

-   I think the letter should have two parts:

    -   you start by briefly stating your CREDENTIALS (briefly because,
        I am assuming, you will be submitting a CV with your history of
        studies, achievements and work experience), and then

    -   you move to the core of the letter: Why do I want this job
        (shadowing the CEO)? Why you should choose me over the other 200
        candidates?

Here are some suggestions. I edited the text to make the process more
efficient, hack it at will. Shaded sentences are just place holders, you
should fill in whatever is appropriate.

The text I am suggesting aligned with Adecco’s mission and vision
without seeking an “explicit” alignment that would be obvious (and
likely be seen as opportunistic) to the selection committee..

Dear Adecco Team,

I am applying for the position of CEO for One Month.

I have just graduated from Escuela Técnica ORT and about to start the
Licenciatura en Computacion at the Universidad de Buenos Aires. My CV
listing experience and achievements is attached.

During the last three years of my secondary education I have been able
to leverage my education with actual work experience at several
technology startups as a software developer, then project manager and
social media manager. I have also started my own company and developed
successful customer relationships.

In summary, I am creative and tech-savvy, I understand how to lead
teams, to combine my knowledge and insights with those of others to
create more powerful solutions to my clients problems. I know how to
meet deadlines, quickly draft up proposals for new projects, moderate
social communities, and manage successful collaborations. Through my
engagement in real-life business environments and professional work I
have become aware that I am an entrepreneur at heart.

< Y aquí es donde entramos con el sales pitch: “mira que interesante
este pibe”…

Tu argumento, para poner en valor todo lo que has hecho hasta ahora
podría ser: soy un aprendiz de CEO en mi propio emprendimiento, quiero
acelerar mi desarrollo como CEO >

As the “CEO” of my minuscule company, I have learned that “getting the
job done” is not the most difficult part of what we do as a company. We
have to react to environmental challenges like currency exchange
controls and the consequences of the coronavirus epidemic. I wreck my
brain trying to figure out what challenges my customers will face in the
next three months to see how I could be there for them. I must be
strategic, for example, should I regard this epidemic as a temporary
distraction and keep pushing till it is over or should I be putting my
focus on new products to address a “new normal” that may emerge? How
will I grow my company and what kind of people will I need?

I want to learn and grow as a CEO, fast. Shadowing your regional CEO
will offer an extraordinary opportunity to see him in action and to
benefit from his insights, answers and experience.

Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to talking to
you.

Best Regards,

Iñaki Arango

Revision 3

Dear Adecco Team,

I am applying for the position of CEO for One Month.

I have just graduated from Escuela Técnica ORT and I am about to start
the Licenciatura en Ciencias de la Computación at the Universidad de
Buenos Aires.

During the last three years I have been able to leverage my secondary
education with actual work experience at several technology startups as
a software developer and then project manager. I have also started my
own company and developed successful customer relationships.

In summary, I am creative and tech-savvy. I understand how to lead
teams, to combine my knowledge and insights with those of others to
create more powerful solutions to my clients' problems. I know how to
meet deadlines, quickly draft up proposals for new projects, and manage
successful collaborations. Through my engagement in real-life business
environments and professional work I have become aware that I am an
entrepreneur at heart.

As the “CEO” of my minuscule company, I have learned that “getting the
job done” is not the most difficult part of what we do as a company. We
have to react to environmental challenges like currency exchange
controls, new policies, and the consequences of the coronavirus
epidemic. I wreck my brain trying to figure out what challenges my
customers will face in the next three months to see how I could be there
for them. I must be strategic. For example, should I regard this
epidemic as a temporary distraction and keep pushing till it is over or
should I be putting my focus on new products to address a “new normal”
that may emerge? How will I grow my company and what kind of people will
I need?

This opportunity at Adecco will allow me experience for myself what the
CEO of a huge company with a lot of employees and corners does every day
and to learn from his expertise

I want to learn and grow as a CEO, fast. Shadowing your regional CEO
will offer an extraordinary opportunity to see him in action and to
benefit from his insights, answers and experience.

Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to talking to
you.

Best Regards,

Iñaki Arango

Revision 4

Dear Adecco Team,

I am applying for the position of CEO for One Month.

I have just graduated from Escuela Técnica ORT and I am about to start
the Licenciatura en Ciencias de la Computación at the Universidad de
Buenos Aires.

During the last three years I have been able to supplemented my
secondary education with actual work experience at several technology
startups as a software developer and then project manager. I have also
started my own company and developed successful customer relationships.
I am creative and tech-savvy. I understand how to lead teams, to combine
my knowledge and insights with those of others to create more powerful
solutions to my clients' problems. I know how to meet deadlines, quickly
draft up proposals for new projects, and manage successful
collaborations. Through my engagement in real-life business environments
and professional work I have become aware that I am an entrepreneur at
heart.

As the “CEO” of my minuscule company, I have learned that “getting the
job done” is not the most difficult part of what we do. We have to react
to environmental challenges like currency exchange controls, new
regulations, and the consequences of the coronavirus epidemic. I wreck
my brain trying to figure out what challenges my customers will face in
the next three months to see how I could be there for them. I must be
strategic. For example, should I regard this epidemic as a temporary
distraction and keep pushing till it is over or should I be putting my
focus on new products to address a “new normal” that may emerge? How
will I grow my company and what kind of people will I need?

I want to learn and grow as a CEO. I have some experience in technical
leadership and I am keen on gaining perspective on business and
organizational leadership. Shadowing your regional CEO will offer an
extraordinary opportunity to see him in action and to benefit from his
insights, answers and experience of someone who is responsible for a
large organization.

Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to talking to
you.

Best regards,

Iñaki Arango


In a short essay, not to exceed 1,000 words, please discuss your plan of
study at Harvard University and how it relates to your career goals.

Embarking on a graduate degree is a significant decision, motivated in
my case by a combination of passion, curiosity, and strategic planning.
My journey towards a Concurrent Master’s (AB/SM) in Computer Science at
the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
(SEAS) has been influenced by prior graduate-level study, academic
interest, and research goals. I developed a deep interest in the
research process through my engagement in thought-provoking research
projects. This sparked the idea of taking more advanced,
research-oriented courses throughout my time at Harvard, and generated
my interest in pursuing an advanced degree concurrently with my
undergraduate training.

My interest in learning more advanced concepts in Computer Science is
driven by the ability of technical ideas to be applied to unrelated
fields with great success. I have seen this firsthand through my
research project CS252R: Advanced Topics in Programming Languages, a
graduate-level program synthesis class. In 252R, we expanded on
cutting-edge published work (e.g., Stokes et al. in Nature Machine
Intelligence) and applied Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to drug design
and biomolecular synthesis. Using MCTS, we combined a library of
molecular building blocks and biochemical reactions to create advanced
chemical compounds that satisfy desired properties, like
blood-brain-barrier permeability and binding affinity to brain targets.
I find it fascinating that the same MCTS algorithm used to synthesize
advanced computer programs can be also applied to generating molecules.
The project underscored the potential for interdisciplinary
technological applications, which when combined with the diverse
collection of coursework that the AB/SM has to offer, can radically
increase my exposure to different fields and expand the impact of my
work.

I also find it impressive that Computer Science theory can shed light on
social problems that would be difficult to analyze otherwise. My
research in CS 136: Economics and Computation showed me how
computational game theory concepts can be used to explain how humans
behave in complex environments. My project focused on the dynamics of
human cooperation, modeling repeated encounters between individuals as
an infinitely-repeated game. The goal was two-fold: to identify what
settings lead to cooperative and spiteful behavior, and to verify
through simulation the convergence of agent behavior to theoretically
determined equilibria given specific conditions. By varying the quality
of agents’ memory, we could check whether a better recall of past events
made agents more spiteful, and by varying the discount factor of the
rewards for each iteration we could verify for which ranges certain
strategies were equilibriums. This exploration was not only academically
enriching but also laid the groundwork for future work exploring the use
of game theory to model human behavior and design systems where
individual incentives are aligned with outcomes that are socially
optimal. By tapping into the SM resources and increasing the breadth of
courses I take, I hope to continue to make academic breakthroughs like
this and accelerate my rate of discovery.

One such course that piqued my interest – that I am now currently taking
– is CS 238: Optimized Democracy, which focuses on applying
game-theoretic principles to real-world scenarios, such as national
elections. This course offers an opportunity to understand the
strategies of political parties and explore ways to incentivize voter
participation. These areas align with my broader interest in applying
computational methods to social and political challenges, demonstrating
the versatility and relevance of computer science in contemporary
societal issues. Pursuing the SM concurrently with my undergraduate
degree would further contextualize the theoretical knowledge that I’ve
gained from more fundamental undergraduate courses, exposing me to the
many practical applications of Computer Science. This exposure would be
especially beneficial for a potential future PhD, as I would gain
additional clarity on the areas of research that interest me and that
align with my set of skills, allowing me to produce more impactful
research.

There are further professional reasons for pursuing a Master’s degree at
this time. Many roles that interest me post graduation, particularly in
the rapidly evolving field of AI/ML, require an advanced degree. The
increasing democratization of knowledge and use of AI as a productivity
tool has raised the bar of complexity for meaningful contributions to
the field. A thoughtful mix of undergraduate and graduate classes would
allow me to not only understand the practical implications of the latest
research in the field, but also to appreciate the theoretical
underpinnings. This training would elevate me from an implementer to an
engineer: someone who can closely follow the field and contribute to it
meaningfully in the form of new models and applications.

Even though academic and professional aspirations are my main drivers
compelling me to complete the AB/SM, financial considerations also play
a role in my decision. As an international student, the financial
landscape of U.S. education presents significant challenges. Doing the
SM together with my AB will allow me to use my existing financial aid
package, making obtaining an advanced degree less financially
burdensome. This aspect removes a significant barrier to my higher
education that international students often face.

On balance, with the above benefits in mind, I believe the AB/SM program
at Harvard SEAS is a valuable opportunity to advance my personal and
career goals. Pursuing a Concurrent Master’s degree is not just an
extension of my education but a strategic step towards my ambitions to
make significant contributions to the field of Computer Science and
beyond.

My journey is characterized by a deep-seated interest in research and a
desire to apply computational methods to complex, interdisciplinary
problems. As I embark on this new phase of my academic journey, I am
eager and prepared to embrace the challenges and opportunities that lie
ahead. The opportunity of pursuing an AB/SM is filled with potential for
personal growth and academic achievement, and I am excited to see where
this path will lead.

1.  The Francis and Peggy Cahn Fund for Argentina will support
    Argentinean students studying at the Harvard Graduate School of Arts
    and Sciences in the Engineering, Applied, Physical and Life
    Sciences; the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, the John F.
    Kennedy School of Government, or the Harvard Graduate School of
    Education.

  Candidates are evaluated on the basis of merit and financial need. It
  is the donor’s wish that recipients have plans to return to Argentina
  and utilize their education to enable them to contribute to
  Argentina’s social, economic, and scientific progress, and priority
  consideration will be given to those candidates.

2.  Amalia Lacroze De Fortabat Fellowships are awarded each year to
    students with Argentine citizenship who have been admitted for
    graduate study at Harvard University. Awards are need-based and take
    academic merit into account. Priority will be given to degree
    candidates in fields that will enable them to contribute to: (1)
    Argentina’s social, economic and scientific progress; (2) the
    formation of public policies that strengthen Argentine democracy:
    and (3) Argentina’s academic and professional development.

  Applicants are expected to return to Argentina upon completion of
  their programs at Harvard.

3.  Harvard Club of Argentina Fellowships are open to Argentinean
    students who have been admitted for graduate study at one of Harvard
    University’s graduate or professional schools. Recipients must be
    enrolled in a full-time, in-residence program.

  Candidates are evaluated on the basis of merit and financial need.

Please tell us why you are a good candidate for this fellowship in no
more than 200 words.

Three years ago, my friends and I pledged to travel to the U.S., absorb
knowledge, interact with innovative thinkers, and then return to
Argentina to foster sustainable growth. My journey began at Rice
University, and after freshman year, I transferred to Harvard. Here, I
found a community passionate about leveraging technology for Latin
America's improvement. My involvement deepened as I met founders aiming
to uplift their communities through startups.

As president of the Harvard SEAS Chapter of the Society of Professional
Hispanic Engineers, I intensified efforts to promote STEM among Hispanic
students, inspired by successful Latin entrepreneurs. This role
highlighted the vast potential of advanced knowledge in addressing
critical issues, positioning me to explore Computer Science further
through a Concurrent Master’s program.

Growing up in Argentina, where economic instability is a daily
challenge, has honed my ability to innovate under constraints. This
background, combined with my academic and professional experiences,
equips me to contribute uniquely to the atmosphere at Harvard. I aim to
share this perspective, learn from my peers, and pursue solutions that
benefit Argentina, embodying the spirit of innovation and resilience.


Please select all that apply to you

-   Grew up in a household with a total income below the US poverty
    threshold

Gender Identity

-   Male

Will you be in the first generation of your immediate family to graduate
from a four-year college (If neither of your parents graduated from a
four-year college or university with a bachelor’s degree or the
equivalent, please select yes)?

-   No

Note that only Harvard College sophomores and juniors (Classes of 2025
and 2026) are eligible for the fellowship. Please confirm your year of
graduation from Harvard College below.

-   2025.5

Primary Concentration (as listed on my.harvard)

Computer Science

If you have declared a joint concentration, select the other area here:
(Optional)

Statistics

Please enter your GPA. (Note that your academic performance will be
verified with the Harvard College Registrar.)

4.0

Please enter below any coursework you have taken that relates to
technology or innovation. You may enter up to four Harvard courses.

CS 238: Optimized Democracy

CS 181: Machine Learning

CS 252R: Advanced Topics in Programming Languages (Program Synthesis)

CS 136: Economics and Computation

If you have finalized your summer plans, please share what you will be
doing (250 words max)

At the start of the summer, I will head to Vienna with Ayush Noori to
present our paper on Multi-Objective Generative AI for Designing Novel
Brain-Targeting Small Molecules at the ICLR 2024 Workshop on Generative
and Experimental Perspectives for Biomolecular Design. Our work
introduces algorithmic methods for finding new drug candidates targeting
brain-related disorders.

After the conference, I will visit family and friends in Argentina and
attend Empremafia, an annual event where young entrepreneurs from
Argentina and neighboring countries gather to network, announce
fundraising and product updates, and establish partnerships.

Upon returning to New York City, I will either join Bridgewater
Associates as an Investment Engineer or the Google Developer X Team. At
Bridgewater, I would contribute to developing systems that the world's
largest hedge fund uses to incorporate analyst feedback, forecast
economic indicators, and make allocation decisions. At Google, I would
work on Project IDX, their new AI-powered online code editor.

To conclude the summer, I will travel to China to teach at a summer camp
for high school students interested in exploring liberal arts education.
My lectures will cover foundational elements of probability theory and
its practical applications, such as forecasting weather, predicting
disease transmission, and targeting social media advertisements.

In summary, my summer plans include presenting AI research, visiting
family, networking with other Latin entrepreneurs, working on
cutting-edge technology, and teaching probability to high school
students. These diverse experiences reflect my commitment to personal
growth, innovation, and making a positive impact across various domains.

Are you now or have you ever been a founder?

Yes currently

Do you consider yourself a business or technical founder?

Both business and technical

Name of the startup?

Recyco

Describe your company in 50 characters or less?

Our software makes it easier for people to recycle

What inspired you to solve the pain point you’re addressing with your
startup? (Max 250 words)

One day, my soon-to-be co-founder explained to me that large consumer
product companies in Argentina are eager to recycle more than they do,
but face challenges sourcing the required recycled content. They have to
contact multiple small recyclers, who are regularly out of stock,
leading to an inefficient and low throughput purchasing process.

I was initially intrigued by the fact that these issues were not
chemical or budget-related, but rather logistical. Historically these
are problems to which technology has been able to provide solutions, or
add value, such as in the case of Flexport and Bringg. I was inspired by
the potential I saw for technology to make a big difference in the
industry.

Armed with an initial idea, my partner and I went straight to selling
the idea to customers. No one had the whole picture; people would give
you hints of what a solution would look like through their feedback. I
wanted to solve the puzzle, understand what it took for everyone to say
"yes, that exactly solves our problem".

While we eventually reached that stage, I found other ways to remain
motivated. After ideation came implementation, and I was driven by the
technical challenges that I faced, as well as figuring out the optimal
UX for our customers to interact with the platform.

What excited me has changed over time, and will continue to do so, but
the entire time working for Recyco has been extremely rewarding, and I
look forward to what the future holds.

Describe an impressive thing or two your company has accomplished so
far: customer count, revenue, product launch, etc. (250 words)

One of Recyco’s most notable accomplishments has been closing more than
USD 650,000 worth of contracts with clients all over Argentina.
Achieving this was not easy. Considering the economic and political
unrest in the country, this required not only finding clients that
believed our product would be useful for them, but also providing such a
clear and promising vision that they were willing to invest in our
future as a company. To achieve this, after having identified our first
product, we built a document explaining our view of how the industry was
evolving and our plan for fully automating our clients’ recyclable
material procurement.

While getting corporate clients was amazing, the efforts did not stop
there. Our business model involves companies sponsoring their local
governments so they can use our software. The city, which is in charge
of collecting recyclables, can use our tools to make their logistics
more efficient, and then provide the companies with the materials they
need to operate. To close the loop we also needed to convince multiple
local governments that our idea was good enough that they were willing
to make a significant investment in terms of time and effort to
incorporate our software into their operations.

Ultimately all of our work was fruitful. Not only did we close the
contracts with companies, but two cities have already started
integrating our platform into their operations, and together with our
NGO partners, we will finish integration with 18 more cities by the end
of 2024.

Describe some challenges that your company has had to overcome? (250
words)

Many of our biggest challenges have stemmed from bootstrapping the
business. We hit our first speed bump when we were nearing the end of
contract negotiations with our first customers. We realized that we
needed to ramp up our development speed to be able to deliver on what
was promised. However, not having any revenue yet, and being in a
country where paying with stock is not commonplace for startups, we
could not hire any more engineers. To overcome this that summer I worked
all day, every day, to finish our product suite. This involved
scratching almost all of our previous codebase and starting two new
mobile applications and a web dashboard.

This sufficed for our first customers, but expectations were growing
quickly and we needed to match them, so with the revenue from our first
contracts we went ahead and looked for engineers that were up to the
challenge. The decision of who to hire as our first full time engineer
was a crucial one, and never having performed an interview myself
before, a pretty daunting one. Thankfully we were able to overcome this
hurdle and hire among other people, Maxi and Facu, two amazing engineers
that are still with us today.

Together we have grown by leaps and bounds into something bigger than I
had ever imagined. Not fundraising, which I saw as a constraint, ended
up being an invaluable learning tool that allowed us to reach the lean
but growing operation that we are today.

How long have you been working on this?

Since 2021.

What is the stage of the venture?

Efficiency

Supplemental information if applicable (links to websites or articles
etc.)

-   Here is a presentation we made last year to and Princeton’s Business
    Today International Conference Impact Challenge
    (https://drive.google.com/file/d/19Io2ZxDCLkDw-0uMPoFQxj3bM37yXhPK/view?usp=sharing).
    Please do not share outside of this application process.

Why are you applying to the Undergraduate Technology Innovation
Fellowship program. What do you hope to gain from this program? (Max 300
words)

I am applying because I want to meet undergraduate and graduate students
that share the same passion as me about startups. I want to meet people
who are excited about creating something from scratch, who do not shy
away from uncertainty, and who thrive when faced with problems that are
not perfectly defined. A great way to meet these people would be through
taking courses at HBS, attending Fellows Seminars, as well as the other
Fellows events. Through these events I will also meet more people in the
Boston and broader US startup ecosystems, who have had founding or
investing experiences, and from whom I can learn more about what it
takes to start a successful company.

Everyone I meet, as well as the education material in CORe and the
Startup Bootcamp, will give me a better sense of what it takes to go
from problem, to idea, to product, to company making a big difference in
the world. Starting a bootstrapped business taught me a lot about
building a lean operation, but less about designing business models and
pitches that are attractive to investors. I want to learn more about
scaling faster by getting people invested in what you are building, and
not only VCs, but also engineers that want to join your company and
customers that want to use your product.

Moreover, I want to take this opportunity to share my knowledge with
others, first with the people I meet through the program, so that they
can avoid the mistakes I have made, and second by taking the
connections, skills and insights from the program to my communities back
home. In doing so, I hope to contribute to the growth and success of
startups at school and in Argentina, and foster a culture of innovation
and collaboration.

What accomplishment are you most proud of achieving? Explain what the
accomplishment shows about you and why it is relevant to being an
entrepreneur. (Max 200 words)

When I was approached by another student to design a trading platform
for a competition I was surprised. I knew very little about trading, and
much less about the technology that powers it, but I was set on making
it work. I visited trading firms to learn more about their systems, and
reached out to students that had attended other competitions to
understand what they liked and disliked, and eventually laid out a plan
for what we were going to build. I recruited a couple other student
engineers and we got to work. We met at coffeeshops in between classes
to code and after sixteen thousands lines we had a working system.

In two weeks, 150 students will come from all over the country to
compete against each other as part of HUTC, the first manual trading
competition at Harvard. The entire competition will run on a trading
platform designed fully in-house, including the trading terminal and the
exchange infrastructure.

I am proud of having organized HUTC, as it forced me to use my startup
instincts, pushed the boundaries of my technical knowledge, and
introduced me to people with whom I will likely start projects or
companies in the future.

Four months into a new project, you are getting mostly negative feedback
about your idea. Which of the following are you inclined to do and why?
Stay the course, make course correction, or pivot to a new idea. (Max
200 words)

I would be inclined to course correct over pivoting or staying the
course. However, I would also take into consideration the source of
feedback. I would make sure that the critics are not all in positions
that will be disrupted by my company’s success, and would weigh the
feedback from stakeholders with industry knowledge more heavily. An
outside perspective, while sometimes valuable, might not recognize the
true value of an idea, such as the HBS student that told Jeff Bezos that
he needed to sell Amazon to Barnes and Noble and “get out” [The
Everything Store].

Pivoting to a completely new idea might be premature, given that not
enough time and thought has yet been put into making it into its best
version, and given valid and relevant feedback, staying the course would
be unwise, as it could represent at dead end, or worse, a misuse of
resources that prevents you from exploring this or any other idea
further.

Making a course correction would involve assessing the feedback,
analyzing the critiques, and identifying the root causes of the negative
comments. Making targeted adjustments will remove weaknesses from ideas
and products, and ultimately lead to more success in the future.

(Optional) Is there anything else you would like to tell us that will
help us evaluate your application?

Next semester, I am taking a gap semester to create an "artificial
programmer" bot capable of implementing requested functionality in an
enterprise codebase. This will push to its limits the current state of
the art in code generation, which will be a great learning opportunity,
and will show a possible path forward to companies that are looking to
automate their codebase maintenance.

I will be in Cambridge the entire time, so I can fully engage with all
the events, seminars and startup bootcamp. This also has the bonus
effect that I will be around for one more semester.


-   I am really interested in the teaching of computer science.

-   In high school I worked with the Dean of Computer Science track to
    design new courses aimed at replacing the old courses, with
    curriculums that were more adept to current knowledge of students,
    and that were more helpful given our new vision of CS.

-   Similar to math, computer science is sometimes perceived as hard
    unnecessarily, and this is often caused by poor education of the
    topics.

-   I think an initial focus on practicality and impact is good

-   From looking for people to code for the trading club at harvard, I
    saw many people can code within the framework of psets, but have
    trouble when having to make an application to solve a problem they
    are interested in. I think giving people the tools to be able to
    take projects from zero to 100 for themselves, this will allow them
    to explore topics for themselves, and overall strengthen the
    capabilities of CS students at harvard.


Q1) Why do you want to join HLAB? (max. 200 words)

Teachers play a crucial role in shaping our lives, and I am no
exception. Without their guidance, I would not be where I am today. As a
result, I have a strong desire to give back and help others achieve
their full potential. My experience as a trainer assistant in the
Science and Informatics Olympiads sparked my passion for teaching and
learning. It taught me the value of breaking down complex topics into
simpler concepts to help students better understand and apply them.

My training as a Peer Academic Advisor at Rice University provided me
with the skills necessary to connect with students on a deeper level. I
understand the importance of creating a supportive and inclusive
environment that fosters growth and learning. These experiences have
made me more patient, empathetic, and understanding of different
perspectives.

Becoming a teacher at HLAB is the perfect opportunity for me to continue
my passion for teaching. I am excited about the prospect helping
students develop the skills they need to succeed. I believe that my
experience and commitment to making a positive difference in the lives
of my students make me a strong fit for this role.

Q2) Please share something that you are passionate about. What motivates
and excites you? (max. 250 words)

“Are you Iñaki??” José asked, surprised to see a high school student. He
has two children with Down syndrome and was exhausted from wrestling
with Argentina’s health system to get the care his children need. He
knew he wasn’t the only parent in this situation with a child with a
disability. He had an idea for a solution and was looking for someone to
bring it to life.

He had reached out to dozens of anonymous users on an Argentinian
blockchain forum, and I was the first to respond. When I heard his
story, I was deeply saddened. I was determined to find a way to ensure
that all these families received the treatment they needed and to
simplify reimbursement, regardless of their geographic location or their
socioeconomic situation.

In the two years working with José to develop Reindi, a platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities. We have interviewed parents like José from all around the
country to better understand their situation. We went from brainstorming
to a functional, concrete app, currently used by José and his two
children, and soon to be tested by ten families, five doctors, and a
small insurance firm.

Reindi has taught me the value of technology, not only to solve problems
but to connect with people on a deeper level and to understand what is
important in their lives. For me, nothing is as fulfilling as building
something from scratch, and watching how it positively impacts their
lives.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O2u4rWUP0V1IcvAqMJqGnJpssroezF7H3gD9yLVpuBM/edit

Awdawd

Q3) HLAB strongly believes in the power of peer-mentorship. Deep
dialogue between high school students and mentors is essential to
creating a powerful peer-mentoring relationship, however not all high
school students can communicate freely in English. How would you
overcome the language barrier with high school students? (max. 300
words)

Facilitating discussions across languages barriers can be challenging,
especially when students have different levels of proficiency and they
might feel self-conscious due to this. However, as a mentor I believe
that it's our responsibility to create a safe and respectful environment
where students feel comfortable sharing their perspectives and engaging
in meaningful dialogue without them being concerned about their English
proficiency.

To achieve this, I would start by setting clear ground rules for the
discussion, such as respecting each other's opinions, avoiding personal
attacks, and actively listening to others. I would also encourage
students to share their experiences and perspectives without being
concerned about how good their sentence structure or pronunciation might
be by putting myself as an example. As an international student from
Argentina, my native language is Spanish, so coming to the United States
to study was a challenge in terms of adapting to a new culture as well
as a new language. I would share with the students my experience
navigating school in a different language so they can connect with my
struggles and feel more comfortable sharing in class despite their level
of proficiency.

In addition, I would make sure to acknowledge and validate the efforts
of students by constantly praising them and giving positive feedback,
which would create an environment free from judgement. By doing so, I
hope to foster a culture of open-mindedness and understanding, where
students can learn from each other and grow in their understanding of
complex issues while their practice their English.

Finally, I would be open and flexible in my approach, adapting to the
needs and dynamics of the particular group of students I'm working with.
Whether that means providing additional resources or adjusting the
discussion format, I would do my best to ensure that everyone feels
heard and respected.


What is important to you in life? More importantly, why do you have
those values?

The most important thing to me in life is my friends. I’ve noticed with
time that the moments where I am the most happy is where I am mentally
engaged and hanging out with people I love.

My friends challenge me. Their diversity means that every day I’m
exposed to different topics, ideas and opinions that I would probably
would not have encountered easily in my day to day life. This exposure
forces me to rethink what I believe and makes me grow.

Also, having a strong support network is extremely important and helps
you navigate the ups and downs of life. I am there to support them and
they are there to support me if anything goes south.

I don’t personally enjoy shopping or getting material things that much,
but if I ever do, it fizzes away quickly. The growth, knowledge and
memories I’ve made by spending time with friends are going to remain
with me forever and make me a better person.

What do you think are some of the most pressing problems in the world?

Pressing problem 1:

The causes and consequences of climate change are not understood by the
general population, which makes it seem like a less urgent issue, and
decreases the chances of people becoming involved in the solution.

Bill Gates’ book on climate change does a good job of explaining his and
putting the urgency into perspective. He shows how a change in fractions
of a degree of the global temperatures can kill millions of people and
destroy trillions of dollars worth of economic progress, especially in
global south countries.

Most organizations are very focused on fixing climate issues and are not
very focused on improving the misinformation situation. The later is
easier to attack, but it can still have a huge impact on the final
result.

Pressing problem 2:

Too many high-talent people following the corporate route instead of
going to organizations where their added value to world society can be
maximized.

There is a clear pipeline from top universities, many of which hold
brilliant minds capable to immense change, to corporate jobs where their
capacity is initially put to use in making small tweaks to presentation
slides, financial models, or paper pushing.

Overhauling the financing of education (different loan terms based on
career choices, free education, etc.) and improving the access to
information on “alternative” and impactful career paths could increase
the number of people that choose to follow them. In the long run, this
would increase the quality and output of the sectors of society that are
dedicated to improving local and global standards of living.

What kind of impact would you like to have on the world? What causes
would you like to support with your time and money? Why?

I believe that I can maximize my impact by helping in the ways I know I
am most effective. After years of working for startups and programming
for fun and competitively, it is easier for me to come up with technical
solutions to solve everyday problems.

This is especially useful since the development of platforms, apps or
systems that solve people’s problems can be created once and, without
any further human intervention, help thousands for years. As long as
apps are not created just for the sake of development, and extensive
research is done on the most effective ways of helping, technology can
be an amazing tool that multiplies the effects of those willing to lend
a helping hand.

In the past I have provided technical help and consulting to NGOs that
built resource matching services for veterans and that helped people
with cognitive disabilities file their insurance paperwork more easily.

Not only did I enjoy the working with those teams a lot, but I was able
to provide way more value than if I had just joined as a regular helping
hand.

dwad


The planning aspect → roman colonies, if we see a roman map through the
lens of history we can see that Rome changed with the years as it was
constantly adding features taken from places they conquered – i.e.
ancient Greece.

Roman colonies were very standardized, they had strict guidelines on how
to build a settlement in the places they conquered —prefabricated
colonies.

Harvard buildings as archetypes of roman buildings: which one is the
market, horse track, houses, and coliseum?

The design of roman colonies was organized in a square pattern in the
center of the city and then it expanded in disjointed ways to the
outskirts of the city.

Which general principles does the Harvard campus follow:

-   the main yard and the streets surrounding it are all in a square
    pattern, which is lost once you walk farther away from here.

-   The dining hall is where people go to meet people–similar to the
    purposes of the market in ancient Rome.

-   In the roman empire, it was normal for poor and rich people to live
    in the same zones, the houses were interwoven disregarding
    socio-economic status. In Harvard, we can see that 1) stores and
    more modern/commercial buildings are in between the old campus and
    houses –Smith, CVS, coffee shops, river houses, and the yard. 2)
    professors, staff, and students live all together in the houses and
    dorms. “Upper-level citizens” –professors and staff– have houses
    near or inside Harvard and some of them are proctors or tutors in
    the houses/dorms.

-   The quad as the castle created by (this random Rome guy who wanted
    to live far away from everyone).

Horse track?

Coliseum?

Potential topic to cover: HUA as representing a fake democracy: in Rome,
there was an emperor with unlimited power, and in Harvard, the student
government is a pseudo-democracy that makes decisions in a self-serving
kinda way.

Points to Consider

-   Planning aspect – what type of arrangement(s) or general principles
    does the campus demonstrate?

    -   The center of the yard is square, like Roman colonies were,
        since they were created way after Rome, and where usually
        planned. The rest of the city has grown organically, it was
        built during a tumultuous period where people were fighting to
        be emperor?

        -   Emphasize mix of both, they started building but it quickly
            fell down.

    -   From the slide: plan for growth of city beyond original limits

    -   Sander’s theatre. We got it before Rome, which made me very
        proud since there is usually not much going on in this distant
        town.

    -   The center of the city is walled off, to protect ourselves. But
        as our population has grown, it has expanded beyond the wall of
        the cities.

    -   They tried to make the houses/blocks remain of equal size, like
        in other colonies, and they achieved that, but failed, like they
        did in other cities, of maintaining a standard. You have poor
        houses next to rich houses (final clubs / residential houses).

    -   Store-front shops integrated with residential space in Harvard
        square. In between the houses you can buy cookies, ice cream,
        and sit-down restaurants.

    -   Civil war monument in the Cambridge Common is the Capitolium,
        dedicated to the founding fathers.

        -   A Capitolium (Latin) was an ancient Roman temple dedicated
            to the Capitoline Triad of gods Jupiter, Juno and Minerva. A
            capitolium was built on a prominent area in many cities in
            Italy and the Roman provinces, particularly during the
            Augustan and Julio-Claudian periods. Most had a triple
            cella, one for each god.

    -   The Quad is a villa far away from the city. Similar to Hadrian’s
        Villa, it sports it’s own dining centers, gymnasiums, community
        spaces, etc.

-   Armatures – Identify and discuss several, i.e. how they are
    connecting paths

    -   The fortifications around the central yard, they have have doors
        on the primary street axes, and intermittent regular towers,
        Securitas (sound latin already)

-   Campus as a forum? Consider the central yard as a Roman forum and
    discuss the correspondences that you see

    -   The forum was flexibly designed after the needs of the settlers.
        To them the most important things at the time were religion and
        academics. That is why instead of building a single building
        with columns around it, they kept the central square open, with
        the two biggest and most important buildings facing each other:
        The church, with its portico, and the library, with its portico.

        -   The story of the library is interesting, it was rebuilt
            after some years of the original settlement by a rich family
            of the town. Their kid had traveled to Gallia around during
            Caesar's conquests to learn more about their culture and had
            written hoards of manuscripts about his travels and what he
            had learned. Reading was extremely important to him. One
            time, coming back from one of his travels, he was ambushed
            by bandits, and in an attempt to defend himself, he was
            killed.

        -   In his honor, his mom donated the materials required for the
            local government to construct the library. Marmols brought
            from various places in the empire, like the Villa Magna (we
            could say that this is where they drew inspiration from).
            The library was named after him, Widenarius.

-   Activity spaces – discuss the location of several activity spaces
    (i.e. ritual, spectacle, administrative) around Harvard’s campus and
    compare them to those often seen in Roman cities

    -   Temple: Church

    -   Market: Annenberg Dining Hall

    -   Amphitheater: Sander’s theater

        -   Like every other Roman city, we wanted to stand out of from
            the lazy Greek, so we built it above ground using state of
            the art techniques like concrete and round arches. It is not
            as big as the Theater of Pompey, but it served us well.

    -   The Murr is the Colosseum / Hadrian’s Villa

-   Commemorative or ideological elements – are any of these woven into
    the campus? Discuss whether any such elements (using modern
    ideological notions) are woven into the fabric of the campus and how
    they relate to Roman urban ideologies.

    -   Harvard statue

        -   Founder of the city / Emperor at the time?


If you are interested in pursuing a B.S.E. (Bachelor of Science in
Engineering) degree, please write a 300-500 word essay describing why
you are interested in studying engineering, any experiences in or
exposure to engineering you have had, and how you think the programs in
engineering offered at Princeton suit your particular interests.

-   D

While preparing for the Informatic Olympiads in my junior year of
highschool I discovered an algorithm lecture series online. I binge
watched them until I got stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover
differences between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across an
article on its application to the analysis of DNA sequences of
individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the application
of this method across disciplines and challenged myself to do the same
with the algorithms I was learning. One of the topics that I was
struggling most with was balancing complicated chemical equations. I
wrote a program that applied classic computer science to the balancing
problem. I started using it in class and my friends found it very
useful. Since that day, I step back at every opportunity and ask myself
how what I am studying connects to what I know about computer science
and how potential connections may change my understanding of the
problem.

In the past few years I have created several programs for fun and
profit, but its was through the development of a navigation app for the
blind community and a health reimbursement platform for people with
disabilities that I developed a passion for applying computer science to
health for the benefit of society.

I want to learn about the latest advancements in the field of
computational biology. The work carried out by the CS department and by
Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics will be wonderful
opportunities for me to familiarize myself with new developments in the
area.

I do not only want to study computational biology, I hope to play a part
in advancing it. I want to work alongside Barbara Engelhardt, whose work
on protein prediction I believe will impact future medical research, and
Mona Singh, who works on the application of machine learning algorithms
to massive biological datasets.

I am also interested in understanding the larger picture. I am currently
researching the policy changes required for people with disabilities to
be able to submit digitally signed documents to the government through
the internet. I know how big of a role policy has on the adoption of new
technologies and I want to take part of the conjoined program between
the CS department and Woodrow Wilson School of Public & International
Affairs to be able to understand how these two areas interact.

I would like to apply what I learn at Princeton to become an
entrepreneur focused on socially-minded work and believe Keller Center’s
eLab Incubator will jumpstart my efforts.


Class: 2025

Roles:

1.  Director of Tech

2.  Director of Education

Why do you want to be a part of board and what do you plan to bring?

I am eager to join the board of the Harvard Undergraduate Quantitative
Traders club mainly because of how much I have enjoyed being part of the
club so far. It has honestly been the most impactful club that I have
joined at school purely just from the friends I have been able to meet
there. I am very grateful for all the events that I’ve been part of and
would like to give back and contribute more actively to the club’s
activities and planning.

I plan on contributing to what makes this club great, the energy that
makes it not just a hub for quant trading but also a warm, welcoming
community where lasting friendships are formed and where everyone feels
like they belong. I plan to bring laughs, smiles, hugs.

What ideas and improvements do you have for the club and also your roles
specifically?

One key improvement I propose is increasing our outreach and publicizing
efforts. I believe there's a significant untapped pool of talent at
Harvard not fully aware of quantitative trading as a career path or
lacking the resources and guidance to pursue it. My goal is to extend
our club's reach to these groups, ensuring we cater to a more diverse
set of students who have the potential but not the exposure.

For both roles, I see an opportunity to enhance the technological aspect
of our club’s offerings. I want to organize training sessions on web
architecture, data analysis, trading systems, and C++ nuances, so that
we can better prepare our members for the technical demands of more
programming-heavy roles at trading firms. This diversifies HUQT’s
educational content and responds to the evolving needs of the industry,
where these kinds of topics have started to be asked more, even for
trader or researcher roles.

For the Director of Technology role, I would like to expand on the
trading platform being developed for the competition so that we can also
use it to practice trading games by ourselves individually, and host
mini mock trading competitions as a club. This, together with organizing
a small development team that works year-round on the platform, will
increase our exposure to trading topics and trading-related programming
topics alike.


I am writing to express my strong interest in the Winternship
opportunity at Bracebridge Capital. This past academic year, through
participation in Harvard’s Undergraduate Quantitative Traders Club, DE
Shaw’s Nexus Fellowship and a quantitative finance class, I have become
increasingly interested in learning more about investing and trading in
the public markets. As a current Junior majoring in computer science and
statistics, I have honed strong analytical, programming and math skills
that I look forward to applying in a professional setting.

I am particularly excited about the opportunity to engage in an
abbreviated version of your analyst training program, participate in a
group research project. These components represent invaluable
opportunities to both contribute and grow in understanding the
multifaceted aspects of a buy-side financial services firm.

What initially attracted me to Bracebridge was its entrepreneurial
nature. I have previously enjoyed the entrepreneurial experience while
developing a recycling logistics startup in Argentina, and consider
myself driven and intellectually curious.

Through Harvard’s independent study program, I am currently working on a
book that introduces the basic concepts of quantitative finance aimed at
the undergraduates that will take STAT 170: Introduction to Quantitative
Finance in the future. This experience would give me invaluable insight
regarding the work of a buy-side financial services firm and can help
future students better understand how markets operate, and interest them
in a career in investments.

Being Argentinian, I bring a unique international perspective that could
offer fresh insights into the global capital markets in which
Bracebridge operates. I am eager to immerse myself in this rich
educational experience that aligns closely with my academic and
professional aspirations.

Thank you for considering my application. I am very much looking forward
to the possibility of contributing to, as well as learning from, the
team at Bracebridge Capital.

Best regards,

Iñaki Arango


  Interview: Time: Day:

  To be filled in upon submission.

  Model tour stop to be presented at the interview (please circle one):

  Strauss Courtyard Memorial Hall Widener Library

  If you change your mind, you may present a different spot, but you
  must present a spot.

CRIMSON KEY SOCIETY

[]

  ----------- ------------ ----------- ------------ ----------- -----------

  ----------- ------------ ----------- ------------ ----------- -----------

  2023 Comp Application

  Applications are due by 4 PM on Monday, February 13^(th). Print out
  this form (double sided if possible!) and bring it to Sever Hall 104
  anytime from 10AM - 4PM to submit your application. Look for us in red
  sweatshirts. Feel free to write your answers by hand or type them. You
  will sign up for an interview when you turn in your application.
  Everyone who turns in an application will get an interview. Interviews
  will be held February 17^(th) – 19^(th), are 15 minutes long, and
  include a 5 -10 minute tour stop. To prepare for your interview visit
  qrco.de/CKS2023 to find the tour outline and other helpful
  information.

  If you are not available to submit your application on the 13^(th),
  you may have a friend drop it off for you or email the Comp Director
  at crimsonkeycomp@gmail.com. Please e-mail crimsonkeycomp@gmail.com
  with any questions/concerns regarding your application.

Basic Information:

  Name: Iñaki Pronouns: he/him

  Class: 2025 (transferred at the beginning of sophomore year)

  Harvard Dorm Room #: Adams Oaktel/Inn 411

  Email Address: inakiarango@college.harvard.edu

  Please check this account frequently for the duration of comp Phone
  Number: +1 (281) 919-8581 Hometown: Buenos Aires, Argentina

  Languages in which you would feel comfortable giving a tour: English
  (native), Spanish (native)

  Please also indicate your level of experience: native, fluent,
  intermediate, beginner, etc.

Short Answer Questions:

  Please be brief! Do not write more than a few sentences.

1.  Why are you interested in Crimson Key and what unique perspectives
    or experiences could you contribute to the organization?

I recently joined some professors in the Law School in running a legal
clinic as a translator. We left early in the morning, spent the entire
day in New Bedford, around an hour away from Cambridge, and came back at
night. I was exhausted but really really enjoyed my time there. I moved
from Argentina a year ago, where service opportunities are not as
structured, so I was never exposed to these types of organizations.

This was a one-time thing since they are not often in need of real-time
Spanish translators at the Legal Clinic, but it inspired me to join a
service organization around campus. I also enjoy giving tours to my
friends from home when they come to visit, so I think the Key would be a
great fit.

In terms of how I could contribute to the club, I think it is two main
ways. The first is that I am a transfer student from Argentina. Growing
up we always had limited resources, so anything we had to do we learned
to do effectively and wasting as little resources as possible. This is
useful in any service organization since you want to help as much as you
can but don’t have an unlimited budget.

The second way in which I could contribute is through organizational
skills. I spent my gap year at an investment firm redesigning their
organizational systems and processes using easy-to-adopt tools, such as
Notion and Streak.

2.  What is a cool thing about Harvard you would feel proud to share
    with a visitor?

One of the coolest things thank shocked me when I got hear is that I had
heard about Harvard having world-renowned professors, but I didn’t
really feel it until I went to class it turned out that some of the
people teaching were the ones that wrote the textbook, or the ones that
had some of the most important discoveries of the field named after
them. These are all professors that are open to talking to you and
letting them help you with their cutting-edge research.

I was also mindblown by the fact that having all these things, the
school still gives enough financial aid so that anyone can attend. I
encourage anyone that is thinking about it to apply, and not be worried
about not being able to afford it.

3.  What is one change that you would like to see Harvard make to become
    a more welcoming place?

I think one way in which Harvard could become a more welcoming place is
by fostering cross-cultural interaction: Harvard could create
opportunities for students from different backgrounds to interact and
engage in cross-cultural dialogue, such as through student
organizations, clubs, and cultural events.

This sounds like something that they would already be doing, but I was
surprised after coming here my sophomore year how I would invite people
to come to certain club events and they would refuse, saying “we don’t
get together with that crowd”. After going deeper into why I noticed
that it was partially due to a lack of knowledge about the other group
and who was part of it.

I think making some events, especially those of cultural organizations,
open to the general public and emphasizing that everyone is welcome is
one first step in the right direction.

4.  CKS is dedicated to serving the Harvard community. If you could
    implement an initiative through Crimson Key that works to serve the
    community, what would it be and why?

Following on the previous questions, I think one way CKS could serve its
community is by organizing one-day outings during the weekends from
people all over campus (different years, majors, houses, etc.).

People often tend to stick to the same circles of people in their same
major classes or the people that live close to them in their house and
find it hard to meet people outside these circles. Clubs are often
pre-professional (meeting people from the same major) or hard to get
into due to a strict comp process.

A short outing that is easy to join from people all over the school
would increase the chances that you meet someone new and make friends
outside the people you already know.

5.  Each year, CKS comes up with a slogan for First-year Orientation
    Week. For the Class of 2007, our slogan was “007: From Cambridge,
    With Love.” The slogan for the Class of 2015 was “CR1M5ON.” Come up
    with an idea or two for a Freshman Week slogan to welcome the Class
    of 2027. Feel free to sketch a logo idea. Be creative and feel free
    to illustrate!

  (Disclaimer: The slogan you submit becomes the property of the Crimson
  Key Society. In more exciting words, we may actually end up using your
  design! Have fun!)

Here are two potential slogan ideas for the Class of 2027's Freshman
Week:

1.  "HARV2027: Your Future, Your Way"

2.  "Unlock Your Potential: Welcome to Harvard 2027"

For each logo, here is an n accompanying logo idea:

1.  For "HARV2027: Your Future, Your Way", the logo could be a compass
    with the letters "HARV" in the center, pointing in multiple
    directions to symbolize the variety of paths and opportunities
    available at Harvard.

2.  For "Unlock Your Potential: Welcome to Harvard 2027", the logo could
    be a key with the number "2027" inscribed on it, unlocking a door to
    represent the potential and possibilities waiting for the Class of
    ’27 at Harvard.

6.  Have a fun fact about yourself? Share!

Two years ago I had to undergo surgery for scoliosis. They put two
titanium bars next to my spine to straighten it. For a little bit, my
friends that had known of the surgery called me the Kebab man, because I
had a metal rod going right through me hahaha. I am also ordained in the
state of Texas if anyone needs help with their wedding.

  Thank you for your time! We look forward to meeting you!


I received my initial university decision at the beginning of 2020, and
I committed to attending Rice at that time.

Due to the COVID lockdowns that same year, the US embassy in Argentina
was interviewing a very small number of people who were applying for
visas. My initial appointment was canceled and rescheduled for well
after the start of classes at Rice. I had three options: arrive late and
miss Orientation Week and the f<irst weeks of class, delay my start
until the Spring Semester, or defer. I chose this last option because I
did not want to miss such an important tradition of the university nor
start late, and I didn’t want to be a semester out of sync with the rest
of my classmates.

I therefore took a gap year and stayed in Argentina from my high school
graduation, December 2019, until July 2021, before the beginning of the
2021 Fall Semester.


Please explain the steps in the AHA’s chain of survival. Given this
model - why is it important to get CPR training? [~200-400 words] (see
here for AHA's chain of survival model:
https://www.sca-aware.org/campus/the-chain-of-survival)

Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is a pulsless state that ocurs suddenly and
unexpeectedly, as is brought on by an issue with the electrical activity
of the heart. There are multiple reasons why this may occur, like due to
a heart attack, electric shock, blut for trauma or sever imbalance in
electrolytes. Patients lose consciousness instantly and collapse. The
aim of a good SCA treatment is to restore the normal rythim of the heart
while retaining a good neurological outcome.

One of the reasons it is important for everyone that can to get CPR
training is because it is usually bystanders able to act appropriately
that end up saving the lives of people with SCA. The time between the
beginning of the arrest to when appropriate care is giving to the person
is a major factor in determining their survival. If no treatment is
provided in the first 10 minutes after the onset of the arrest, the
patient will almost certainly die. Given that emergency services are not
able to act this fast, it is important that the general public gets
educated in quick and effective ways of dealing with SCA.

The AHA’s Chain of Survival is a series of steps that should be followed
to maximize the likelihood and of a good outcome. The first three steps
are geared towards bystanders while the last two are geared towards
emergency responders:

1.  Immediate recognition of cardiac arrest and activation of the
    meergency response system

    a.  Realizing that the emergency is going on and acting on it. One
        should get trained on recognizing that SCA is occurring since it
        is not instantly recognizable to the untrained eye.

    b.  The first steps are calling for professional help (911, on-site
        emergency response, etc.) and getting to the closest automated
        external defibrillator (asking someone or getting it themselves
        if they are alone).

2.  Early CPR with an emphasis on chest compressions

    a.  Chest compressions should be started immediately to maximize the
        likelihood of survival. A cycle of 30 compressions follow by two
        breaths should be followed until the AED or EMS arrives. It is
        important to recoil completely between compressions and to make
        sure that each compression has the appropriate depth for the
        patient. Adults victims should receive compressioins of at least
        two inches in depth while kids (1-8 y/o) should receive
        compressions of around two inches.

3.  Rapid defibrillation

    a.  Once the AED arrives the rescuer should follow the instructions
        on the device. These devices will only send a shock to the
        patient if they need it, so it is incapable of harming anyone.
        They are made so anyone can use them without prior instruction.
        Two things to not is that a “dose-attenuator” should be used on
        kids (age 1-8) if available (but not necessary) and that no one
        should be touching the body while the AED is at work or they
        might also receive a shock.

4.  Effective advanced life support

    a.  EMS should provide high-quality CPR, early defibillation and use
        the devices and drugs available to them.

5.  Integrated post-cardiac arrest care

    a.  Providing post-arrest “comprehensive” and “multidisciplinary”
        system of care, including mild therapeutic hypothermia, amongst
        others.

Do you think CPR training should be mandatory for all individuals (e.g.
for all high school students as pre-requisite for graduation)? Why or
why not? If yes - how would you implement this training? If no - how
would you address CVD risk and ensure adequate preparedness? [<500
words]

I believe it should be must democratize access to this information (and
any other that helps people stay alive). However, the implementation of
making it “mandatory” to receive would be extremely hard to implement
without recognizing the economics disparities in countries and
neighborhoods all around the world.

Schools must be provided with the resources they need to be able to
provide this teaching at no cost to the student, since it would
otherwise put undue unequal economic stress on people from low-income
background that have to finance their own training because the school is
not able to do it.

Other economic and accessibility constraints should also be considered,
such as scenarios where due to economic hardship, illness, religious
reasons, the student is not able to physically reach the teaching
center. Virtual adaptations to the training should be provided that
maximize what can be learn in an online fashion.

We can also leverage spaced repetition to increase retention of the
theoretical information and practical skills taught during th
etrainings. After every repetition of a fact, the brain recognizes as
increasingly important and stores that information in a readily
accessible fashion for more time. By providing yearly trainings grades 1
through 12 and then onces every 5 years, we could ensure that almost
everyone that went through the national education system is aware of the
appropriate CPR techniques.

Should other interventions to reduce mortality from CVD similarly be
made mandatory (e.g. low sodium diets, eliminating sugar-sweetened
beverages, reducing smoking rates)? Why or why not? Why might it be more
difficult to implement these interventions? [<500 words]

I do not think so. These kinds of personal interventions would primarily
place an incredible high burden on individuals and not on the
organizations/structural factors that influence these problems (grocery
stores, manufacturers, logistics companies, income levels, etc.).

By removing the option of individual choice you are adopting coercive
measures that infringe upon personal liberties.

There are also situations and contexts in which access to high sodium or
high sugar foods is beneficial. For example, individuals with low
glucose need high sugar foods/ingredients (like high fructose syrup) to
be able to be able to leady lifes in a comfortable manner (i.e. not
eating as much food or without taking a lot of care about their intake).

Some cultural practices also require foods or diets that are not
necessarily the healthiest. Indigenous people, japanes people and some
religions conform to diets that now fall outside the recommended dietary
guidelines. Banning these foods would infringe on their personal rights,
such as the right practice whatever religion one wants.

We should instead address the structural issues that contribute to
obesity and the other leading factors that decrease our cardiovascular
health, such as the public healthcare system and more affordable healthy
foods. It is worth noting that by doing this we are affecting the life
of organizations or companies that are way more resilient to hardship or
change than individual families who could be having trouble affording
enough food as is.


What is the dilemma of the Prisoners' Dilemma and what does this
illustrate more generally about Nash equilibria?

The dilemma is that while both prisoner's would benefit from both
cooperating, the rational decision individually is to defect, which is
globally suboptimal. It illustrates that if it is common knowledge that
if every actor will always behave rationally, every agent will make a
"locally" optimal choice based on that assumption, which does not
necessarily yield an global optimum if everyone had agreed on a certain
action beforehand, which could be enforced. This can be related to the
price of anarchy explained in lecture.

How can you argue that there is no pure-strategy Nash Equilibrium in the
Matching Pennies game?

There is no pure-strategy Nash equilibrium because if we fix the action
of Player 1, and we pick the action of Player 2 rationally based on the
action of Player 1. From Player 1's perspective, he would wish to change
his action, and so on. For any action profile, there is always a player
whose utility function would increase by changing their individual
action, which would make the other player strictly worse.

Why must all actions in the support of a mixed strategy that is part of
a Nash equilibrium have the same expected utility?

If not all actions in the support of a mixed strategy that is part of a
Nash equilibrium have the same expected utility, then there exists at
least one action “a” in the support that has higher utility than another
action “b”. That means there exists another strategy that does not
contain “b” in the support, and thus has a higher expected utility.
Thus, the actions in the support must all have the same expected
utility.

What distinguishes a correlated equilibrium from a Nash equilibrium?
What’s an example of a correlated equilibrium you play in your everyday
life?

Every finite, simultaneous-move game has at least one correlated
equilibrium, while not every game has a Nash equilibrium, such as Rock,
Paper, Scissors. An example of a correlated equilibrium is the situation
that occurs between two cars at a stop light. If none of the cars
advance, they both obtain nothing. If both advance at the same time,
they both lose because they crash, but if one advances and the other one
does not, then one wins nothing and the other one has a positive reward.
When the light signal “suggests” player 1 to go, he will go and the
other ones will stop, and the same goes for the case where the light
signal “suggests” player 2 to stop.

CQ 2: BitTorrent

What was the biggest problem with Gnutella? (1 sentence!)

There was no incentive for a participant of the Gnutella network to
provide uploads to other, which lead to free-ridining (i.e., using the
newtork to download but never offering uploads).

Explain, in one sentence, the main difference between Gnutella and
BitTorrent with regard to incentive design.

Structurally, BitTorrent relies on trackers to know the IP addresses of
the peers in the swarm for a file, vs the completely unstructured
Gnutella network that relies on message-passing. In Gnutella, due to the
way its network is structured, the chance of a client interacting with
each other again is low, which why people choose the Nash equilibrium of
free riding, but BitTorrent, by forcing clients dealing with the same
file to interact repeatedly by chunking the file into smaller pieces,
turns the game into a repeated game, which is know to allow for
long-term cooperation.

Describe three ways in which the BitTorrent file sharing game does not
exactly correspond to a repeated Prisoners' Dilemma.

1. In the Prisoner's Dilemma, just two players are interacting with each
other, and it is always the same two players, while in the BitTorrent
system, many clients interact with each other at the same time, and the
network is not a complete graph (i.e., no every client is interacting
with every other client). Since repeated play will not always occur with
the same clients, it might be a dominant strategy to screw over another
client if you don't think you will need to rely on them in the future.

2. Unlike the Prisoner's Dilemma, which is symmetric, in the case of
BitTorrent we cannot assume that every client has the same reward/cost
per action, and that they have the same goals. This makes it so that
there is no dominant strategy that maximizes the expected value against
any other client, and one can actually achieve better overall
performance by understanding the cost function of the other clients.

3. It is necessary to be able to "win" (get the complete file) to
occasionally play a locally suboptimal move and reach out to a peer that
is not currently in your top bandwidth providers, just for the sake of
adding a new peer to the list and establishing a new connection that
could lead to future collaboration.

Describe three ways in which the BitTyrant unchoking strategy differs
from the reference client.

1. BitTyrant makes more effective use of the reference client's
altruistic contributions providing uploads only to the clients with the
highest likelihoods of providing good download speeds back, and only
providing them with the bare minimum upload speed required to "unblock"
them (i.e., to become one of their top "m" uploaders).

2. Due to its more effective and efficient use of network resources, a
swarm of BitTyrant clients produces better performance conditioned on
the same resources and upload speeds being allocated to the clients, but
if users manually cap uploads at the point of diminishing returns to
them personally, the whole system performance is worse than in a swarm
with reference clients.

3. BitTyrant also attempts to push the limits of other clients by
reducing their allocated bandwidth with time to test what the minimum
bandwidth they should provide is to unblock the other client.


I have made a mistake when filling in the “Student Non-filer” section of
the CSS Profile. My College Board Financial Aid ID is EAA3S7F.

I entered AR$ 7720 in the “Income earned from work” item when I should
have entered AR$ 0. The AR$ 7720 amount belongs to the “Untaxed income
not provided elsewhere on this application” item.

Original

[]

Corrected

[]


Caffeine

Recommendation: They have a strong team that was able to learn a lot
from leading Endeca (which exited successfully). I cannot understand
what sets them apart other than being more expensive and having a few
extra features, but at this stage, growth is the most important thing,
and they have proven consistently they were able to acquire big clients
and keep them. I believe they will continue to grow. I do not know much
about buying shares from employees during Series X, so I do not know if
a 35% discount is good enough.

Opportunity: Acquire a forward contract on 49,312 shares under option
from Renee Bochman, Salsify’s VP of Customer Engagement since February
2018. She is leaving by the end of year and has time pressure to
exercise. Keeps going back and forth between exercise-only (she likes
Salsify) v. selling everything (she's a bit older, her FA is beating her
up about the eggs-in-one-basket thing).

Purchase price per share of $9.43, a 35% discount to the preferred price
per share of $14.51 (per Pitchbook).

Salsify’s latest round of financing was a $155M Series E closed in
September 2020 at a $650M pre-money and $805M post-money valuation. The
round was led by Warburg Pincus with participation of Venrock.

Previous Rounds:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deal Type      Date           Amount         Pre-Val        Post-Val
  -------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- --------------
  Series D       August 2018    $43M           $265M          $308M

  Series C       January 2017   $30M           $140M          $170M

  Series B       July 2015      $16.6M         $53.02M        $69.62M

  Series A       September 2013 $8M            $13.56M        $21.56M
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Background: Founded in 2012 in Boston, Massachusetts. Raised $252.6M to
date. 444 employees.

Summary: Salsify is the developer of a product experience management
platform designed to drive online products and increase sales. CEO and
CDO previously marketing and data jobs, respectively, at Endeca. Third
co-founder ran product management and marketing or Cambridge Semantics.
Software manages product data handling processes and ensures a single
source of truth for the whole brand, independent of the consumer facing
marketplace.

Pain Point: Consumer buy in a store, through amazon, or through an
independent marketplace, but almost always do their research online.
Wholesalers and distributors do the same. Brands until now did not have
a centralized way to manage all their product data and ensure they are
up to date appearing everywhere (instagram, marketplace, amazon,
supermarkets, etc.).

Product: CommerceXM, a platform for syndicating all the functionality
required to support and grow sales in a modern environment: information
management, assets management, marketplace connectors, digital catalogs,
etc. THeir product is divided into three big groups of functionality:
Retailer / Distributor Selling,Marketplace & D2C Selling, and Product
Management Experience.

Market: MarketsandMarkets estimates the global PIM market size is
expected to grow from USD 9.0 billion in 2020 to USD 16.0 billion by
2025, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 12.2% the forecast
period. According to their Series D retrospective, Salsify is no “PIM
but in the cloud”, they do much more. But because they’re creating a
category, it is a bit hard to estimate market size.

Competition:

1.  Multi-channel:

    a.  Akeneo PIM ($122.1M raised)

        i.  Akeneo is a PIM system that can be used by every type of
            company while Salsify is more leading brand manufacturers,
            retailers and wholesalers, especially one that work with an
            e-commerce multichannel network.

        ii. Lacks Content Syndication and Documentation Management.

        iii. Akeneo’s website is more clear about what they do because
             they include pictures.

        iv. Has a free version.

    b.  inRiver ($2.5M raised)

        i.  A more traditional PIM system with more PIM functionality
            than Salsify and a wider network.

        ii. Salsify is more used by retailers while inRiver by B2B and
            B2c omnichannel commerce strategies that look for one source
            of truth.

        iii. Lacks trining for clients, friendly UX/UI, dashboard
             customization, and data import / export functionalities. If
             you already have a database system, it is pretty difficult
             to merga that from external sources.

    c.  Widen Collective ($3M raised)

    d.  Censhare ($29.55M raised)

        i.  Seems very similar

    e.  Pimcore ($3.5M raised)

        i.  Supposedly a subsetof Akeneo’s functionality

    f.  Catsy

        i.  Similar but focused on asset management

    g.  Stibo STEP

2.  Focused on online marketplaces:

    a.  Episerver ($33.94M raised, $1.16B LBO)

    b.  Plytix ($2.62M raised)

Differentiation/Defensibility: Strong team that was able to learn a lot
from leading Endeca (interpreted from their blogs), good traction with
leading brand using it (CocaCola, Asics, Bosch, L’Oréal, Tyson, gsk,
KraftHeinz, Samsonite, etc.). Cannot fully understand whats set them
apart from the competition other than having a few little helpful
features. They are the most expensive alternative.

Team: 444 full-time employees in 2020. The leadership team consists of
around 12 people:

1.  Jason Purcell (Co-founder & CEO)

    a.  General Manager of eBusiness @ Endeca (Acquired by Oracle) ,
        Director of Windchill Solutions Team @ PTC, WashU St. Louis
        (BSc, Biology & Engineering Science)

2.  Mike Milburn (President)

    a.  Member Of The Board Of Advisors @ ScreenMeet, Chief Customer
        Officer @ Salesforce,

3.  Mary Jefts (CFO)

    a.  CFO @ Unidesk, CFO @ Acquia & CFO @ OpenPages (Acquired by IBM)

4.  Jeremy Redburn (Co-founder & Chief Data Officer)

    a.  Director of Product Management @ Endeca (Acquired by Oracle),
        Software Developer @ IBM & Web Developer @ Audible

5.  Rob Gonzalez (Co-founder & CMO)

    a.  Founding Member @ The Digital Shelf Institute, Director of
        Product Management & Marketing @ Cambridge Semantics & Senior
        Product Manager @ Endeca

6.  Colleen Fuller (Chief People Officer)

    a.  Chief Member @ Chief, Head of Talend and Experience @ Vistaprint
        & Senior Human Resources Manager @ Pearson

7.  Adam Ferrari (Executive Vice President of Engineering)

    a.  Strategic Advisor of Big Data @ Oracle, CTO @ Crisply & CTO @
        Endeca

8.  Lee Feigenbaum (Executive Vice President of Custom Success)

    a.  VP of Marketing & Technology @ Cambridge Semantics, Software
        Engineer @ IBM & BA in Computer Science @ Harvard

9.  Christian Hassold (Vice President of EMEA)

    a.  Community Director of EMEA @ The Digital Shelf Institute, Coach
        @ Alchemist Accelerator, Director of Strategy and Corporate
        Development @ ChannelADvisor & CEO @ HubLogix (Acquired by
        ChannelAdvisor)

Open positions for hiring: Senior Software Engineer (Infrastructure
Tema), Senior Sales Engineer, Sales Recruiter, Product Expert (Support
Engineer) Business Development Representative, Senior Salesforce
Administrator, Senior Account Executive, Senior Implementation
Consultant, Customer Support Specialist, Senior Director (Product
Management), Software Engineer, Marketing Operations Specialist,
Strategic Account Manager, Principal Customer Success Manager, Director
(Global Professional Services Resource Management Office), Marketing
Campaign Manager, Head of Information Security, Technical Customer
Support Manager, Web Designer. Link to full list

Traction: According to this presentation, ARR growth of 544% from end of
2016 to 2019 and revenue growth of 800% from end of 2016 to end of 2019.
Found this job posting that says that the CommerceXM ARR is $100M+.

Business model: They sell their software to Corporations, but could not
find information on pricing and model (SaaS, per user, per product,
etc.). They do not have a free model and they are more expensive than
their competitors.

Go-to-market: Regular B2B sales. In November 2018 the CMO said he wished
he had hired a senior leader in product marketing earlier because they
were pitching to all the companies with largely the same positioning and
messaging.

Press

1.  Salsify Lands $155M Series E as its commerce experience platform
    sees a big surge of business from COVID-19 (TechCrunch)

2.  Salsify names Mike Milburn , formerly Salesforce’s Chief Customer
    Officer, as President (Yahoo Finance)

3.  Salsify and Snap36 partnership creates seamless experience for image
    upload and management to help brands win on the digital shelf
    (Business Wire)

4.  As brands fight for commerce success, salsify grows customer base
    through its commitment to helping them win on the digital shield
    (Business Wire)

    a.  “Major product expansion, acquisition of B2X Partners, second
        consecutive year on Deloitte’s Fast Technology 500, opening of
        Chicago office highlight another year of significant growth for
        Salsify”


Good morning!

I recently received on 2022-12-22 the Original Passport Request Letter
(OPR) for application number “V400923949” with UCI “11-2307-6969”. It
states that the passport must be submitted within 30 days of receiving
the letter.

I am currently in Argentina, but since (according to TTServices support)
there is not expected timeline for receiving the passport back after I
submit it, I cannot send it to the Argentinian VAC.

I need to board a flight going to the USA, where I study, on 2023-01-13
and I need my passport to be able to enter the country.

I will not be able to reach New York with my passport until after
2023-01-22, so I am asking for an extension on my passport submission
deadline.

Thank you in advance for any help that you may be able to provide!

Best regards,

Iñaki


Carbon
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3zhTbjKkqY&ab_channel=itsthevoiceman)

Recommendation: They have a strong technical team and advisors, and a
management team with a great track record, but there are other very
similar competitors in the market. According to 3d printing engineers in
forums 4 years ago they were “sucking money out of GE”, which could
explain why they left. Without having a truly differentiated printing
process, superior to that of others, I cannot see how this company can
explode.

Maybe their management and corporate development team is tremendous and
they are able to grow. I would talk to GE Ventures to see why they left
and what they think about the team and how they have executed so far.
Without GE’s word, I lean towards a no.

Opportunity: Acquire a forward contract on 58,732 shares under option
from Hardik Kabaria, Software Engineer at Carbon since 2015 and Director
of Software Engineering since Oct 2020. He wants to start a family and
diversify (especially interested in real estate. He does not want to
wait up to 2.5 years for his money.

Purchase price per share of $14.55, a 48% discount to the preferred
price per share of $27.99 (per Pitchbook).

Carbon’s latest round of financing was an undisclosed secondary
transaction, prior to that a $260M Series E closed in June 2019 at a
$2.14B pre-money and $2.4B post-money valuation. The round was led by
Baillie Gifford and Madrone Capital Partners with participation of
Adidas Ventures, Arkema, Fidelity Investments, Founders Circle Capital,
Johnson & Johnson Innovation - JJDC, JSR, Next Play Capital, Reform
Ventures, Sequoia Capital, SharesPost and Temasek Holdings.

Previous Rounds:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deal Type      Date           Amount         Pre-Val        Post-Val
  -------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- --------------
  Series D       February 2018  $200M          $1.54B         $1.74B

  Series C       September 2016 $181M          $883.7M        $1.06B

  Series B       August 2014    $30M           $182.5M        $212.5M

  Series A       March 2014     $11M           $18M           $29M
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Background: Founded in 2013 in Redwood City, California. Raised $682M to
date. 410 employees.

Summary: Carbon (previously Carbon3D) is an industrial 3D printer
manufacturing intended for both prototyping and production at scale. In
their team they have PhDs with technical backgrounds designing the
product and on the management side, they have a team with extensive
previous experience. CEO is ex-CEO of DuPont.

Pain Point: Traditional 3D printing is slow and error prone. This means
it is good for prototyping (even though the iteration is somewhat slow)
but not for production at scale. Carbon seeks to change that by using a
top-down printing system that is much faster and is prepared to produce
parts reliably and in quantity.

Product: Their 3D printers have a pool of resin at the bottom and below
that, a UV projector. Each layer is projected at a time, curing the
resin layer by layer until the object is fully printed. It is faster
than extrusion printing and less error prone because there is no
printing head moving around. According to a foorum four years back,
their method was not very differentiated from other SLA printers and it
was “all hype”.

Market: According to Statista, the 3D printing market is expected to
grow by 21.2 percent year-on-year to reach 13.8 billion U.S. dollars by
2019. The market for 3D printers is projected to reach 5.3 billion U.S.
dollars.

Competition:

1.  Formlabs ($103.18M raised, $1.06B valuation)

    a.  Big clients are Dyson, Sony, Tesla, Ford, Gillette and Ashley
        Homestore

    b.  Direct competitor, cannot find a difference

2.  Shapeways

    a.  Outsourcing 3D printing for B2C companies

    b.  Specially useful in e-commerce cases because they have an API
        for ordering the print of an item

    c.  They provide help in the design process

    d.  THey have a marketplace for selling custom items created by the
        users and printed in their facilities

3.  3D Systems ($1.37B market cap. HUGE spike in 2015, then back down.
    THe stock has been almost flat since 1992)

    a.  Nylon, SLA and traditional printers

    b.  Focused on industry

    c.  They offer on demand printing

    d.  Big competitor

4.  Gizmo 3D

    a.  Technically faster and better printing than Carbon, but not as
        developed on the business and production side

    b.  Marketed for consumers or small shops instead of companies

    c.  Crowdfunded

5.  Markforged ($139M raised, $820M valuation)

    a.  Uses traditional head

    b.  Is able to print in onyx, glass fiber, carbon fiber and Kevlar
        among others.

    c.  Expensive

Differentiation/Defensibility: Their subscription business model is
different, but not understanding the technical specifics about the SLA
process I cannot find many more. There are other big players in the
market doing very similar things.

Team: 410 full-time employees in 2020. The leadership team consists of
around 24 people. These are the most important:

1.  Elisa de Martel (CFO)

    a.  Manufacturing Finance Director @ Apple, Finance manager @
        Citroen UK and Supervisor @ PWC

2.  Craig Carlson (CTO)

    a.  Vice President (Firmware and Electrical Integration) @ Tesla
        Motors and Vice President @ Intuit

3.  Philip DeSimone (Co-founder & Chief Customer Officer)

    a.  Scout @ Sequoia Capital, Member Board Of Trustees @ Ursinus
        College and VP of Business Development @ BUYSTAND

4.  Alex Ermoshkin (Co-founder & Chief Innovation Officer)

    a.  Manufacturing Development Lead @ Liquidia Technologies, Research
        Associate @ UNC Chapel Hill, Northwestern & Waterloo, and PhD @
        Lomonosov Moscow State University

5.  Joseph DeSimone (Co-founder & Chairman)

    a.  Chancellor's eminent professor of chemistry at North Carolina
        University, Winner of over 50 awards including 2008 $500,000
        Lemelson- MIT award. Founder @ Liquidia Technologies

6.  Ellen Kullman (CEO, President & Board Member)

    a.  Co-Chair @ Paradigm for Parity, Board Member @ Goldman Sachs,
        Amgen, Dell, GM & United Technologies, CEO @ DuPont, Marketing @
        GE and Sales @ Westinghouse Electric Company

7.  Barbara Cadigan (CPO)

    a.  Senior Vice President of People @ Talend, Vice President of
        Human Resources @ Electronic Arts and HR Manager (Sunnyvale and
        Singapore) @ AMD

8.  Edward Samulski Ph.D (Co-founder & Advisor)

    a.  CEO & Co-founder @ BlueSky Polymers, CEO & Co-founder @
        Allotropica Technologies, Cary Boshamer Professor of Chemistry @
        UNC Chapel Hill, Co-founder @ Liquidia Technologies

9.  Steve Nelson (Co-founder)

    a.  Original CEO. Holds board seats for a lot of companies.

Open positions for hiring: Manufacturing Engineer, Marketing Automation
& Data Science Manager, Senior Counsel (Transactions), Sourcing Manager
and Senior Manager Digital Marketing Operations. Link to full list

Traction: Carbon has partnerships with Ford (2015), J&J (2016), Adidas
(2017, double dip), Vitamix (2018), Ridell (2019) and Lamborghini
(2019). Have already expanded form North America to Asia-Pacific and
Europe.

Business model: They sell a subscription service for 3, 5 and 7 years.
Included are the printer, predictive maintenance and repair, support,
software and hardware updates.

Go-to-market: They enter markets (physical ones) one by one expanding
their area of coverage for their subscription service. They also partner
with big companies to produce small parts at a huge scale, in part for
growing, and in part to showcase the benefits of additive manufacturing
to consumers (e.g. Adidas 4D Futurecraft, fizik bike seat, etc.).

Press

1.  Adidas unveils Futurecraft STRUNG running shoe with ‘most radical’
    3D printed midsole to date (TCT Magazine)

2.  Formnext Connect 2020: Carbon & Fast Radius Expand Strategic 3d
    Printing Partnership (3DPrint.com)

3.  Carbon co-founder DeSimone named Goodyear medalist (Plastics News)

4.  Henkel to validate Loctite materials for Carbon DLS 3D printing
    technology (TCT Magazine)

5.  Carbon and CCM Hockey 3D print world’s first NHL-certified hockey
    helmet liner (3D Printing Industry)

6.  3D Printing Remedies Coronavirus Gear Shortage (Investor’s Business
    Daily)

7.  California Company to 3D Print Air Vents for Lamborghini (Assembly
    Magazine)

8.  Dinsmore delivers custom 3D printed orthotics to young boy using
    Carbon 3D printing (TCT Magazine)

9.  Fizik becomes second bike saddle manufacturer to adopt Carbon 3D
    printing technology (TCT Magazine)


Enter the student’s career objective.

Rev. 1

I wish to develop new technologies, and take them to market through
entrepreneurship. I also wish to study the impact technology has on
society, specifically, the aspect of ethics and of job placement.


1.  ¿Cuáles fueron las consecuencias de los dichos del presidente de
    Barilla? Nombre todas.

  D

2.  ¿Cómo podía afectar el posicionamiento?

  D

3.  ¿El problema se vió reflejado en las ventas?

  D

4.  ¿Cómo Barilla había construído su imagen de marca para diferenciarse
    de las otras marcas de pasta?

  D

5.  ¿Cómo fue el trabajo de Colzani en relación a Relaciones públicas?

  D

6.  ¿De qué manera construyó reputación?

  D

7.  ¿Cuál es la estrategia para la nueva imagen de Barilla?

  D


Tell us about yourself.

I'm an international student from Argentina. One of my favorite things
to do in my free time is visit new food joints with friends and try the
different plates they offer. I go to the gym a few times a week and I
occasionally play videogames on my PC with friends.

In Escuela Técnica ORT, where I followed the Information and
Communications Technologies track, I was introduced to the concepts of
project management and entrepreneurship.

Throughout high school I participated in several competitions, including
programming ones, but I discovered that it was much more fulfilling to
create something I could call my own (or the team's), and see the impact
it had on others. From then on I focused my energies both inside and
outside of school on building apps, services and platforms that would
provide value to society.

Why are you interested in participating in the Change Maker Summit?

I want to make new friends, meet people interested in entrepreneurship,
and familiarize myself with the entrepreneurship environment and
resources at Rice.

Tell us about a time where you saw a need and what you did to address it.

Inti is blind and works at an NGO devoted to improving the welfare of
the blind community. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated
to me the daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the
difficulties and risks of visiting his grandmother. It was not that she
lived too far or that he did not know the streets, but the famously
undisciplined Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe,
scaffolding and unmarked trenches left by public works crews popped up
everywhere, delivery trucks blocked sidewalks, and so on. As usual, my
mind switched into problem-solving mode. I felt confident I could create
an app to offer Inti and the rest of the blind community optimal routes
and to keep track of transitory obstacles. After all, I had access to
very powerful tools and I had solved other complicated problems before.
A few days later I persuaded a couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem, however, appeared to become increasingly complicated as the
days went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of the
experience of a blind person and our built-in biases were. For example,
we took for granted that users would find it natural to interact with
the app using the phone’s touchscreen interface. We were wrong, so we
launched into designing audio features to provide them with feedback.

The weeks went by and we worked around one obstacle after another, but
what we had underestimated were the non-technical issues. For example,
the public works department bureaucrats did not think our project was
worth their time, so they did not give us access to work schedules. We
were not prepared to let that stop us though, and our frustration
spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing with students at our school. Many
of our schoolmates agreed to watch and report obstacles as they walked
to and from school. Their input helped us validate crowdsourcing as a
viable and effective approach.

With the help of the student body, we had built a voice-controlled app
that recommended the best routes to take for a blind person, balancing
time, obstacles and distance. It would also alert them of the presence
of nearby dangers, their location and type.

We showed it to Inti and his colleagues. They were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app’s interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. I realized I want to
dedicate myself to socially-minded work in the future.

Note: This text is partly based on Common App essay. I chose to write
about it because it was one of the experiences that impacted me the most
and led me to other socially oriented projects.

Are there any big problems that you are wanting to find a solution to or problems you want to work on? (*Not necessary for admission to the program)

I have been recently researching a possible (relatively inexpensive to
implement) solution to the problem of population control in a post-covid
world.

Two things led me to become interested. The first was thinking about a
way to make sure the measures taken by Rice for the Fall semester were
being effective and followed. The second was an article by Business
Insider that explained that a few companies are using expensive computer
vision cameras to track how the space is used inside buildings to
improve social distancing measures.

I believe that applying the wireless technology used by Waitz could be
used in these circumstances to provide a space and people tracking
service more cheaply.

If this summit has been successful, I will have _______________.

...made new friends and met a couple of people with the same interests
and ideals I have.


Why Princeton?

-   The culture

    -   I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track and
        with a cohort in my highschool and I look forward to a
        tight-knit environment within which to form meaningful
        relationships with students in all areas of study. Another
        aspect I am looking forward to is the close relationships with
        faculty that Columbia encourages. I have benefited enormously
        from the mentorship of my teachers in the past and hope to
        engage with professors at Princeton in similar ways.

-   The academics

    -   MY STORY WITH COMPUTER SCIENCE

        -   In my junior year of highschool I discovered an algorithm
            lecture series online. I binge watched them until I got
            stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover differences
            between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across an
            article on its application to analyzing DNA sequences of
            individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the
            application of this method across disciplines and challenged
            myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.
            That evening I had an epiphany; one of the topics that I was
            struggling most with was balancing complicated chemical
            equations. I wrote a program that applied classic computer
            science to the balancing problem. I started using it in
            class and my friends found it very useful. Since that day, I
            step back at every opportunity and ask myself how what I am
            studying connects to what I know about computer science and
            how potential connections may change my understanding of the
            problem. I look forward to combine studies in computer
            science and biochemistry.

    -   Columbia’s Computer Science Department program in Computational
        Biology offers an incredible opportunity to mix my two passions,
        CS and biochemistry.

    -   I want to work alongside the likes of Itsik Pe'er, who works on
        how changes to DNA sequencing affect biological processes.

        -   Developing methods for analysis of high throughput
            sequencing data

    -   Moreover, I am excited by the opportunity to intern at the
        Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics and the
        other health-oriented departments.

        -   My story and Itsik and scoliosis

            -   Study of protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions

            -   Gene expression analysis and prediction of regulatory
                network structure

        -   Related to reindi

            -   Knowledge extraction from scientific literature and
                medical reports

-   The opportunities

    -   With everything I learn from these opportunities I want to start
        a company that generates a positive social impact. Columbia can
        provide me with the tools necessary to achieve this through its
        robust entrepreneurship program.

    -   One of the examples of this support that encouraged me was the
        launch of Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis company that
        went from idea to production in twelve months through the
        participation in the Columbia Venture Competition, in which I
        hope to compete.

What I learned from my most difficult challenge

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Questions

-   Were you part of any international students organization?

-   How would you describe the culture at Columbia? Does it feel weird
    to be a foreigner?

-   Were your professors approachable? Did you feel you could ask them
    things or even talk about topics not related directly to your
    classes?

-   Which part of the Princeton experience do you believe had the
    biggest influence on you? Did you keep in touch with other alumni?

-   What was you favorite part of studying at Princeton?


Rev. 8 (FINAL)

Guille: I think we can put this one to rest. I have made minor
grammatical or stylistic suggestions that Inaki needs to resolve.

Inti is blind and works at an NGO devoted to improving the welfare of
the blind community. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated
to me the daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the
difficulties and risks of visiting his grandmother. It was not that she
lived too far or that he did not know the streets, but the famously
undisciplined Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe,
scaffolding and unmarked trenches left by public works crews popped up
everywhere, delivery trucks blocked sidewalks, and so on. As usual, my
mind switched into problem-solving mode. I felt confident I could create
an app to offer Inti and the rest of the blind community optimal routes
and to keep track of transitory obstacles. After all, I had access to
very powerful tools and I had solved other complicated problems before.
A few days later I persuaded a couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem, however, appeared to become increasingly complicated as the
days went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of the
experience of a blind person and our built-in biases were. For example,
we took for granted that users would find it natural to interact with
the app using the phone’s touchscreen interface. We were wrong, so we
launched into designing audio features to provide them with feedback and
in doing so I discovered that, in contrast to the Android platform, the
iPhone’s accessibility support was wonderful. As I dug deeper into the
iPhone accessibility functionality I was surprised by the elegance and
the intelligence of the solutions implemented there. I was in awe of the
effort and care that had been invested by a host of anonymous
developers. For the first time in my experience, a piece of tech
revealed to me the goodwill and the compassion of many smart people whom
I would probably never meet. I felt close to them, was inspired by them,
and wanted to become one of them. I was familiar with the term “software
with a social purpose”, but only then did I start to get the depth of
the meaning.

The weeks went by and we worked around one obstacle after another, but
what we had underestimated were the non-technical issues. For example,
the public works department bureaucrats did not think our project was
worth their time, so they did not give us access to work schedules. We
were not prepared to let that stop us though, and our frustration
spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing with students at our school. Many
of our schoolmates agreed to watch and report obstacles as they walked
to and from school. Their input helped us validate crowdsourcing as a
viable and effective approach and as with “social purpose”,
“crowdsourcing”, here, started meaning something completely different to
me. I had talked about “crowdsourcing” so many times, but as a solution,
an approach. In this case, that crowd had names and faces and I could
see the impact of their volunteering. I had heard “it takes a village to
raise a child” and I then realized that it takes a community to build
software with a social purpose.

With the help of the student body, we had built a voice-controlled app,
that recommended the best routes to take for a blind person, balancing
time, obstacles and distance. It would also alert them of the presence
of nearby dangers, their location and type.

We showed it to Inti and his colleagues. They were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app’s interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. I realized I want to
dedicate myself to socially-minded work in the future.

Rev. 7

Inti is blind and works at an NGO devoted to improve the welfare of the
blind community. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated me
the daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the
difficulties and risks of visiting his grandmother. It wasn’t that she
lived too far or that he didn’t know the streets, but the famously
indisciplined Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe,
scaffolding and unmarked trenches left by public works crews popped up
everywhere, delivery trucks blocked sidewalks, and so on. As usual, my
mind switched into problem-solving mode. I felt confident I could create
an app to offer Inti and the rest of the blind community optimal routes
and to keep track of transitory obstacles. After all, I had access to
very powerful tools and I had solved other complicated problems before.
A few days later I persuaded a couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem appeared to become more and more complicated as the days
went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of the
experience of a blind person and built-in biases were. For example, we
took for granted that users would find it natural to interact with the
app using a classic touchscreen interface. We were wrong, so we launched
into designing audio features to provide them with feedback and in doing
so I discovered that, in contrast to the Android platform, the iPhone’s
accessibility support was wonderful. As I dug deeper into the iPhone
accessibility functionality I was surprised by the elegance and the
intelligence of the solutions implemented there. I was in awe of the
effort and care that had been invested by a host of seemingly anonymous
developers. For the first time in my experience a piece of tech revealed
to me the good will and the compassion of many smart people whom I would
probably never meet. I felt close to them, was inspired by them, and
wanted to become one of them. I was familiar with the term “software
with a social purpose”, but only then did I truly understand its
meaning.

The weeks went by and we worked around one obstacle after another, but
what we had never anticipated was facing non-technical issues. For
example, the Public Works department bureaucrats didn’t think our
project was worth wasting time on, so they denied us access to work
schedules. We were not prepared to let that stop us though, and our
frustration spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing with students at our
school. Many of our schoolmates agreed to watch and report obstacles as
they walked to and from school. Their input helped us validate
crowdsourcing as a viable and effective approach and as with “social
purpose”, “crowdsourcing”, here, started meaning something completely
different to me. And this hit me in a completely novel way. I had talked
about “crowdsourcing” so many times, but only ever as a solution, an
approach. In this case, that crowd had names and faces and I could see
the impact of their volunteering. I had heard of the phrase “it takes a
village to raise a child” and discovered that it takes a community to
build software with a social purpose.

When we showed Inti and his colleagues what we had prototyped and how we
were going about implementing the app, they were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. It made me realize I
want to dedicate myself to socially minded work in the future.

Common App Rev 6 (T y G)

Inti is blind and works at an NGO devoted to improve the welfare of the
blind. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated to me the
daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the difficulties
and risks of visiting his grandmother. It wasn’t that she lived too far
or that he didn’t know the streets, but the famously indisciplined
Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe, scaffolding and unmarked
trenches left by public works crews popped up everywhere, delivery
trucks blocked sidewalks, and so on. As usual, my mind switched into
problem-solving mode. I felt confident I could create an app to offer
Inti and his clients optimal routes and to keep track of transient
obstacles. After all, I had access to very powerful tools and I had
solved other complicated problems before. A few days later I persuaded a
couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem appeared to become more and more complicated as the days
went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of the
experience of a blind person and built-in biases were. For example, we
took for granted that users would find it natural to interact with the
app using the mobile phone keyword. Not so, so we launched into
designing audio features to provide them with feedback and in doing so I
discovered that, in contrast to the Android platform, the iPhone’s
accessibility support was wonderful. As I dug deeper into the iPhone
accessibility functionality I marvelled at the elegance, the richness,
and the intelligence of the solutions implemented there. I was in awe at
the effort and care that had been invested by a host of anonymous
developers. For the first time in my experience a piece of tech revealed
to me the good will and the compassion of many smart people whom I would
never meet. I felt close to them, was inspired by them, and wanted to
become one of them. I was familiar with the term “software with a social
purpose”, but only then did I truly understand its meaning.

The weeks went by and we worked around one obstacle after another. We
left some non-technical issues for later. For example, how to get work
schedules from the Public Works department, whose bureaucrats did not
think our project worth wasting time on. We were not prepared to let
that stop us and our frustration spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing
with students at our school. Many of our schoolmates agreed to watch and
report obstacles as they walked to and from school. Their input helped
us validate crowdsourcing as a viable and effective approach and as with
“social purpose”, “crowdsourcing”, here, meant something completely
different to me. And this hit me in a completely novel way. I had talked
about “crowdsourcing” so many times, but only ever as a solution, an
approach. In this case, that crowd had names and faces and I could see
the impact of their volunteering. I had heard of the phrase “it takes a
village” and discovered that it takes a community to build software with
a social purpose.

When we showed Inti and his colleagues what we had prototyped and how we
were going about implementing the app, they were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. As such, I hope to
dedicate myself to socially minded work in the future.

Common App Rev 5 (T y G)

-   Describe a problem you've solved or a problem you'd like to solve.
    It can be an intellectual challenge, a research query, an ethical
    dilemma-anything that is of personal importance, no matter the
    scale. Explain its significance to you and what steps you took or
    could be taken to identify a solution.

Comentario guille:

  En su forma presente, el contexto es tu proyecto con Inti, el
  challenge: darte cuenta que no todo se resuelve con “tech”. Tu
  insight: como con el proverbio “it takes a village to raise a child”,
  una aplicacion con proposito social requiere que la comunidad una sus
  esfuerzos, el app no es un producto tecnico sino un producto social,
  que encarna las intuiciones, aprendizajes, esfuerzos, etc… de
  muchisima gente que encuentra significado en lo que esta haciendo. Por
  lo tanto, el significado para vos: que partiste con una vision
  “techie” y “personalista” (yo voy a construir esto) de lo que es un
  desarrollo y terminaste con una perspectiva totalmente nueva, la
  emocion de ver la contribucion desinteresada de los demas y aportar tu
  grano de arena a un esfuerzo comun.

Inti is blind and he works at an NGO devoted to improve the welfare of
the blind. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated to me the
daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the difficulties
and risks of visiting his grandmother. It wasn’t that she lived too far
or that he didn’t know the streets, but the famously indisciplined
Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe, scaffolding or unmarked
trenches left by public works crews would pop up everywhere, sidewalks
blocked by delivery trucks, and the list went on and on. As usual, my
mind switched into problem-solving mode. I felt optimistic, confident I
could create an app to offer Inti and his clients optimal routes and to
keep track of transient obstacles. After all I had access to very
powerful tools and I had solved many complicated problems before. A few
days later I persuaded a couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem appeared to become more and more complicated as the days
went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of the
experience of a blind person, our built-in biases were. For example, we
took for granted that our users would find it natural to interact with
the app using the mobile phone keyword. Not so, so we launch into
designing audio features to provide them with feedback and in doing so I
discovered something in the guts of the platform that elicited in me an
emotional response: the Android platform offered almost no support for
accessibility but the iPhone instead was wonderful. As I dug deeper into
the iPhone accessibility functionality I marvelled at the elegance, the
richness and the intelligence of the solutions. I was in awe at the
effort and care that had been invested by a host of anonymous
developers. For the first time in my experience a piece of tech revealed
to me the good will and the compassion of many smart people whom I would
never meet. I felt close to them, I was inspired them, I wished to
become one of them. I had used the expression “software with a social
purpose”, but then, I started to find meaning in it.

The weeks went by, we worked around one obstacle after another, we made
progress, as programmers do. We left some non-technical issues for
later. For example, how to get work schedules from the Public Works
department. As it turned out, the bureaucrats judged that a team of
teenagers did not have the right clearances to access that information.
We were not prepared to let that stop us and our frustration with the
institution spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing with students at our
school. Many of our schoolmates accepted to watch and report obstacles
as they walked to and from school. Their inputs help us validated
crowdsourcing as a viable and effective surveillance approach. And this
hit me in a completely novel way. As with “social purpose” I had talked
about “crowdsourcing” so many times, but I conceived it as a solution,
an approach, a technique. In this case, that crowed had faces and names,
engaged in a behavior I was familiar with and I could see the impact of
their volunteering. I had heard of the African proverb: “It takes a
village to raise a child”. I learned that it takes a community to build
a social app.

When we showed Inti and his colleagues what we had prototyped and how we
were going about implementing the app, they were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. I have found my
vocation, I will design systems with people to help others.

Rev. 1

I had been playing a new game that had just come out with a few friends,
so Discord and WhatsApp were still open. Spotify was playing in the
background, filling the room with music. I knew what drove me forward. I
was set on what I wanted to write about, yet I was reading the lists of
predefined essay prompts. It didn’t make sense, they were supposed to
structure my essay, to support it, but I felt limited, I was trying to
cram my topic into restrictive prompts that pointed to other subjects. I
ignored that fact and kept on reading the list until I found the last
one, the “Create your own adventure” of essays. Recognizing that
choosing one already expressed the idea I was trying to convey, I
clicked it without doubting for even a second and began writing this
introduction. By the time I finished it, I already had an idea about how
I would structure my very own essay.

A few months ago I had a very similar realization to the one I mentioned
in the introduction, but to understand it, we have to go back to my
childhood. When I younger, even before high school, I already liked
taking things apart. It didn’t matter what it was, what was indeed
important was for me to be impressed by what I saw inside said gadget.
By primary school, all household items had been cracked open, and there
was nothing else for me to see, to discover. It was then when I
discovered electronics. They allowed me to marvel at the way a device
worked for much longer and that generated in me an intrigue that I
hadn’t felt before.

After a while of seeing how simple electronics worked, I started
wondering what would happen if I combined them. That’s how some of my
first inventions were born. Out of old PC coolers, I built a boat that I
would follow by walking along the border of the pool. I used the
vibration motors of a Play Station 2 controller to create a simple arm
massager.

With time my project started combining more and more complex components,
and I started watching YouTube videos for inspiration. Once at an
electronics shop, buying the items I needed to build a tesla coil, a
random person in line next to me commented on how what I was building
was quite dangerous, and suggested I researched a name I had never heard
about before: “Arduino”. It turned out to be a tiny computer that
allowed me to interact with all the bits and pieces of electronics I had
encounter until then. I was fascinated. I could tell the computer with
words, kind of strange ones, but words non the least, what to do and how
to interact.

As I delved more and more into programming I started building more
complex projects, but it all started to lose significance for me. I
started forming a routine that had the opposite effect on me than the
one I sought when I started my journey. The routine was like so: I would
have an idea, I would code it as fast as I could, and then I would
almost never touch it again.

It was because I felt this routing forming, that this year I decided to
become what at my school is called Project Manager. I would abstract
from the technical aspect of a project, while still keeping in touch
with it, and drive forward the project with ideas, with a plan for every
team member.

Feeling the difference in excitement between developing short projects
for myself and creating a managing a dedicated team, was what lead me to
find a first few clients and create my own company, an institution that
would allow me to continue doing what I enjoyed in perpetuity.

Rev. 2

Reflect on a time when you questioned or challenged a belief or idea.
What prompted your thinking? What was the outcome?

-   Development is the thing for me.

-   Andrés, asked me if I wanted to become a Project Manager

-   I had an inner fight, between the safe bet, staying in my zone and
    developing, and trying something new

-   There were risks, that made me think long about the topic

-   I decided I was going to give my best effort, because if I was never
    planning on leaving my comfort zone, then I may well keep doing the
    same small projects as always.

Topic 1

When I was starting to write computer programs, I thought of every
problem in a very technical way. I didn't think in terms of requirements
or available resources, I thought in terms of variables, numbers and
booleans.

I remember that during one conversation with my uncle, he told my that I
was looking at things wrong. When you plan to build a house, you think
about entrances, rooms, windows, you don’t think about how each brick in
the construction will be laid.

At the time it didn’t make much sense, and I forgot about the
conversation until the beginning of this year, when I was asked what
role I would like to have in my school’s annual project team. Trying to
find an answer to my lasting doubt about what my uncle meant, I decided
to step out of my comfort zone and chose to be a project manager for a
group called Glös.

Our team consisted of two designers, three programmers and myself. We
chose to work with CILSA, an NGO dedicated to helping blind people and
tackled the problem of navigation. We were moved by the story of one of
CILSA’S members, Inti, who told us that he couldn’t visit his
grandmother, because he was unable to leave his house and walk for more
than a few blocks. While someone with regular vision, is able to dodge
random obstacles in the street, he would walk right into them.

After a few weeks of brainstorming, we found a solution.: an app like
Google Maps, but focused on avoiding obstacles in the street.

BLA BLA BAL ABLA BLA

It was the first time I saw the true impact of a solution I had helped
build. In that exact moment I finally understood what my uncle was
trying to teach me back then, and in the process, I discovered I had a
passion for something much bigger than just writing code. Inti’s joy
inspired me to find more people in need of solutions to the problems
they face every day of their lives.

Topic 2

It was the beginning of the year. As part of my school courses, I had to
choose a project idea and with whom I wanted to carry it out, and most
importantly which role I wanted to have. For the past two years, I had
chosen to be a developer, once creating an Alzheimer's treatment
program, and in another occasion creating software for Satellogic, a
satellite company. This was what I was accustomed to.

But this year something change, a new position was created. One could
now choose to be a “project manager”. I had never heard of such term,
and once I looked it up, I didn’t think it fit my characteristics. Even
though I had always carried out different projects since I was a kid,
I’d never worked with a big team, and was even less prepared to manage
one.

While thinking about what role to choose, it struck me, nobody was
prepared. We were in highschool, and no one had been and even less led a
big team. So I decided to give it a try.

Right after starting, I was a bit confused, as were most of my
groupmates. We weren’t sure what my role was exactly. With the weeks,
things started to become clearer. As more and more requirements were
given to my team, the role of manager started to make sense.

Rev. 3

Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period
of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.

I met Inti in the beginning of 2019. He was a part of an NGO that helped
blind people live better lives in society. He told me he couldn’t visit
his grandmother, who lived only a few blocks, because he wasn’t able to
navigate through the streets. The problem wasn’t that he didn’t know
where to turn, but that he kept walking straight into shops, people, and
tripping with bumps in the sidewalk.

We got together with a couple of friends and decided we were going to
find a solution to his problem. We wanted to create an app that would
tell Inti where to turn an how much to walk, but that would also alert
him of nearby obstacles, and that would recommend to him the best route
to take.

It wasn’t an easy job, and as we kept working, it seemed to become
harder and harder. The first problem we faced was that of interaction.
We needed to find a way for Inti to tell the program where he wanted to
go. We take for granted we can type on a smartphone keyboard, but he
can’t.

After a while we developed a solution that allowed him to hear the
location of every button on the screen and it gave him live audio
feedback on what he was typing, so that he could be sure that the app
was going to take him to where he wanted. After having solved that
problem, we continued working, but we quickly faced another problem.

We didn’t have any place to get information about potholes, or any other
obstacles in the sidewalks. I started talking with the government, but
they kept making excuses and didn’t want to release “sensitive”
information about their locations. I got tired of dealing with them, and
wanted to find a solution as soon as possible, so that the team wouldn’t
have to halt the development. Riding the car one day I had an epiphany,
we could rely on crowdsourcing. People would report problems with the
sidewalks in the city, and based on the reports, we were able to
generate better routes. That problem out of the way, we continued
developing.

By the end of the year we already had a prototype. We called Inti and
the people at CILSA to come to our school. We showed him what we had
built and gave it to Inti to try. He was incredulous at first, but once
he saw it really worked, he got so excited that he almost started
crying. He thanked us immensely for the work with had done for the blind
community.

In that exact moment, I felt a fulfillment I had never felt before. It
made me realize that I want to dedicate my technical knowledge to
finding and building solutions to the problems society faces every
single day.

Rev. 4

I met Inti in the beginning of 2019. He was a part of an NGO that helped
blind people live better. Talking about life he mentioned he couldn’t
visit his grandmother, who lived only a few blocks, because he had
trouble navigating through the city. The problem wasn’t that he didn’t
know where to turn, but that he kept walking straight into shops,
people, and tripping with bumps in the sidewalk.

We got together with a couple of friends and decided we were going to
find a solution to his problem. We were set on creating an app that
would tell Inti where to turn an how much to walk, but that would also
alert him of nearby obstacles, and that would recommend to him the best
route to take.

It wasn’t an easy job, and as we kept working, it seemed to become
harder and harder. The first problem we faced was that of interaction.
We needed to find a way for Inti to tell the program where he wanted to
go. We take for granted we can type on a smartphone keyboard, but he
can’t. After a while we developed a solution that allowed him to have
live audio feedback of what he was doing, so that he knew what he had
typed and here he had pressed.

We thought that was going to be the last problem, but it turned out it
wasn’t. We had no source of information for the obstacles in the city. I
attempted to solve it by contacting the government, who I knew had this
information, but they weren’t willing to give it to “a couple of kids”.
I was not going to let the team’s development get halted, so I had to
find a solution. Coming back from school one day, I had an idea, what if
instead of asking an institution for information, we let everybody
collaborate with their knowledge. We decided it was the way to go, and
after we finished implementing it, we contacted Inti and the people at
the NGO and told him we had a surprise.

We showed them what we had built and gave it to Inti to try. He was
incredulous at first, but once he tried it and realized it worked, he
got so excited that he almost started crying. He thanked us immensely
for the work with had done for him and for the blind community.

Watching Inti using our app, I felt so fulfilled. I had never felt like
that before, and that I want to dedicate my knowledge and ability to
build solutions for the problem

Rev. 5

Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period
of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.

-   For the essay on scoliosis, go to the Long Essay file in the Rice
    folder.


The essay demonstrates your ability to write clearly and concisely on a
selected topic and helps you distinguish yourself in your own voice.
What do you want the readers of your application to know about you apart
from courses, grades, and test scores? Choose the option that best helps
you answer that question and write an essay of no more than 650 words,
using the prompt to inspire and structure your response. Remember: 650
words is your limit, not your goal. Use the full range if you need it,
but don't feel obligated to do so. (The application won't accept a
response shorter than 250 words.)

-   Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that
    is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete
    without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story.

-   The lessons we take from obstacles we encounter can be fundamental
    to later success. Recount a time when you faced a challenge,
    setback, or failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn
    from the experience?

-   Reflect on a time when you questioned or challenged a belief or
    idea. What prompted your thinking? What was the outcome?

-   Describe a problem you've solved or a problem you'd like to solve.
    It can be an intellectual challenge, a research query, an ethical
    dilemma-anything that is of personal importance, no matter the
    scale. Explain its significance to you and what steps you took or
    could be taken to identify a solution.

-   Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a
    period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or
    others.

-   Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it
    makes you lose all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or
    who do you turn to when you want to learn more?

-   Share an essay on any topic of your choice. It can be one you've
    already written, one that responds to a different prompt, or one of
    your own design.


At Penn, learning and growth happen outside of the classrooms, too. How
will you explore the community at Penn? Consider how this community will
help shape your perspective and identity, and how your identity and
perspective will help shape this community.

Rev. 1

There are two key contributions I want to make to UPenn’s student body.

The first is my experience with scoliosis, a condition that forced me to
wear a plastic vest around my torso for years. It was very noticeable
and made me feel different. I couldn’t play with my friends, and
strangers would steer away in public. This demonstrated to me how it
feels to be different, and made me recognize the importance of
sensitivity to the feelings and circumstances of others.

Secondly, I grew up in Argentina. Our economy has performed extremely
poorly in the past few decades. This has forced me to strive for
cheaper, simpler, and more practical solutions for the problems I work
on such that everyone can benefit from them.

Conversely, I have much to learn from my fellow students at UPenn, where
I hope to become an active participant in the Assembly of International
Students. I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track
and with a cohort in my highschool and I look forward to the Assembly as
a tight-knit environment within which to form meaningful relationships
with students in all areas of study and from all over the world.


Duke University seeks a talented, engaged student body that embodies the
wide range of human experience; we believe that the diversity of our
students makes our community stronger. If you'd like to share a
perspective you bring or experiences you've had to help us understand
you better-perhaps related to a community you belong to or your family
or cultural background-we encourage you to do so. Real people are
reading your application, and we want to do our best to understand and
appreciate the real people applying to Duke.

Full Scoliosis - Rev. 1

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The doctor told me I
would have to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. The
vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt. It made me feel
different. I couldn’t go play outside because the heat would be
unbearable. I couldn’t run, play sports, or ride a bike because a fall
could hurt me considerably. I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently. It felt weird at
first. After years of having worn the vest, not having something
pressing on my chest felt liberating, but after a while, I started
experiencing strong back pain.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Mix - Rev. 1

-   Incertidumbre económica. La economía y está ligada al exterior, por
    lo que desde que tengo 10 sé el valor del dólar. Básicamente rige
    todo lo que ocurre en el país.

-   Desde hace poco sé hacer asado.

-   Si no sabés de fútbol, en algunas situaciones uno se siente medio
    alienado porque es parte la cultura central Argentina. A diferencia
    de Estados Unidos, donde hay varios deportes predominantes, en
    Argentina es solo uno.

-   La capacidad de ingeniárselas es muy importante, ya que es un
    paíFTWs complejo, sumamente burocrático, donde cuesta hacer
    cualquier cosa. Además, está plagado de corrupción, por lo que si
    uno quiere hacer las cosas bien, se vuelve sumamente difícil.

There are two key factors that I believe will add value to Duke’s
diverse student body.

The first is that I grew up in Argentina. One value that it has
instilled in me is to be grateful for everything I have. I can eat every
day and have a roof to sleep under. The economic situation of our
country has trained me to look for cheaper, simpler and more practical
situations for the problem I want to solve.

My persistence is another characteristic that has developed as a result
of my life here. Argentinian institutions are famously bureaucratic, so
dealing with them has taught me persistence.

The second factor is my experience with scoliosis. I was diagnosed with
it five years ago, which meant I would have to wear a plastic vest
around my torso for many years. It was noticeable even under a shirt. It
made me feel different. I couldn’t play outside with my friends, and
people who didn’t know me would steer away from me at the sight of the
vest. I would start hyperventilating at random times.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently due to my efforts at
the gym. I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of
those who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis
made me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and
recognize the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Mix - Rev. 2

There are two key contributions I want to make to Duke’s diverse student
body.

The first is the perspective I have developed from growing up in
Argentina. Our economy is very dependent on external factors, and cannot
sustain itself. This has forced me to strive for cheaper, simpler and
more practical solutions for the problems I want to solve such that
everyone can benefit from them. I also attribute part of my creativity
and persistence to the trials of implementing innovative solutions
within extremely bureaucratic Argentine institutions.

Overall, I believe my experience growing up in Argentina has provided me
with a unique perspective and problem solving approach.

The second factor is my experience with scoliosis, a condition that
forced me to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. It was
noticeable even under a shirt and made me feel different. I couldn’t
play outside with my friends, and people who didn’t know me would steer
away in public.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently due to my
conscientious efforts at the gym. My experience with scoliosis made me
realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the extreme importance of sensitivity to the feelings and circumstances
of others.

I hope to bring both of these perspectives and experiences to Duke’s
campus next year.

Full Argento - Rev. 1

A key factor I believe will add value to Duke’s diverse student body is
my Argentinian background. Besides the typical cultural elements, I have
some traits inherent from growing up in my country.

Since I was thirteen, I have known the conversion rate between pesos and
dollars. Our economy is very dependent on external factors, and cannot
sustain by itself at all. The first thing this has taught me is to be
grateful for the situation I find myself in, I am able to eat every day,
have a roof to sleep under, and even have the chance to apply to
college. The second thing it has taught me is that I should strive for
cheaper, simpler and more practical solutions to the problems I want to
solve. Everyone should be able to benefit from them.

I consider creativeness and persistence to be two other characteristics
I attribute to having grown here. Argentinian institutions are famously
bureaucratic and traditional. Having experience with trying to implement
innovative solutions has taught me that sometimes one must flip the
situation over its head and think of completely different ways to solve
or get a round a problem.

Overall, I believe my experience growing up in Argentina provides me
with a unique perspective that can provide new viewpoints and solutions
for the complex discussions being held at Duke.


Compass (Real Estate)

Recommendation: Compass is valued with the multiples of a tech company,
but behaves a lot like a traditional brokerage enhanced with technology.
Compass is burning through cash to acquire agents, through broker
acquisitions and traditional incentives, with SoftBank footing the bill,
but their strategy is “not ... sustainable nor unique; it’s possible for
others to copy”. Compass cannot justify this valuation as a traditional
real estate brokerage. To achieve a meaningful outcome for owners and
investors, Compass needs to embrace more radical changes to its business
model.

[]

[]

The company will have an IPO and I think the same thing that happened to
WeWork will happen here: the public will realize their valuation is not
appropriate because their current model is not sustainable in the long
run. At a 91% LRPP share price, you only have a 9% buffer before taking
a loss, but I believe the valuation will go lower than that.

Opportunity: Acquire a forward contract on 6,647 shares under option
from Chuck Canton, Compass’ Head of Financial Services and Operations
from July 2018 to July 2020, and a forward contract on 736 shares under
option from Rodrigo Hernandez, IT Manager since January 2018 and with
the company since December 2014. Chuck is launching a new venture in
January and is pouring all available personal capital into that. Rodrigo
Hernandez is planning to take a new job imminently and has a 90 day
window from his move to make sure his equity does not disappear.

Purchase price per share of $140.39, a 9% discount to the preferred
price per share of $154.27 (per Pitchbook).

If we do not acquire Chuck’s contract, Dave estimates Rodrigo will sell
for 50% LRPP (ie. $77.13 per share).

Compass’ latest round of financing was a $500M Series G closed in
November 2019 at a $6B pre-money and $6.5B post-money valuation. The
investors who participated in the round were: Alumni Ventures Group,
Asland Capital Partners, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Dragoneer
Investment Group, Qatar Investment Authority, SoftBank Group, and
SoftBank Investment Advisers.

Previous Rounds:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deal Type      Date           Amount         Pre-Val        Post-Val
  -------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- --------------
  Series F       September 2018 $400M          $4B            $4.4B

  Series E       December 2017  $550M          $1.7B          $2.2B

  Series D       August 2016    $90M           $925M          $1.02B

  Series C       September 2015 $60M           $750M          $810M

  Series B       July 2014      $42M           $320M          $362M

  Series A       September 2013 $33.24M        $100M          $133.24M

  Seed Round     January 2012   $8M            Unknown        Unknown
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Background: Founded in 2012 in New York City, New York. Raised $1.61B to
date. ~500 full-time employees and ~17,000 agents.

Summary: Compass is an online brokerage firm for buying and selling real
estate properties. The company assists the buyer throughout the process
of owning a property from discovering properties to sealing the deal,
along with the paper works. Users can browse listings and schedule
viewings via the app. Its mobile app is available for Android and iOS
devices. Compass employs more than 15,000 agents who earn a percentage
of the selling price and give 15 to 30 percent on each sale to Compass

Pain Point: The process of buying and selling a home can be costly and
time-consuming. Compass makes it more easy and streamlined by providing
their brokers with tools to find listings, preparing presentations and
more.

Product: Web platform for viewing homes for sale in the market and for
listing sales. It shows a virtual tour, location, property history,
schools nearby, an analysis of the neighbourhood and homes similar to
the ones you are watching. Compass Concierge is a service that helps you
sell your home faster and for more money by covering the cost of home
improvement services with no upfront fees or interest charged. Compass
also has a tool to increase the productivity of agents by aiding them
both in the buying and selling process through the use of technology

Market: 6,000,000 houses (yearly volume) * $230,000 (median price) * 6%
(usual commission) = $82.8B

Competition:

1.  Brokerages:

    a.  Trulia (Owned by Zillow Group)

        i.  THey have their own tool which attempts to break down the
            real cost of purchasing a home into more digestible monthly
            payments.

        ii. Best feature is the map that displays information about a
            home’s surrounding area, including recent sales, local
            schools, crime rate, public transportation options and many
            more.

    b.  Redfin

        i.  Redfin agents charge 4.5% commission.

        ii. Provides home value estimates with a margin of error of
            1.77% for on-market homes and 6.66% for off-market.

        iii. Agents are employees paid a fixed salary and do not earn a
             commission, instead they receive bonuses based on their
             customer reviews.

    c.  Purplebricks

        i.  They are from the UK

        ii. Much more efficient. Each of their agents perform almost ten
            times the amount of transactions than Compass’ ones.

2.  Pure tech companies:

    a.  Zillow

        i.  Has online listings for thousands of homes.

        ii. Has the ability to find agents who charge 6% commission in
            your area.

        iii. Downside is that their home-pricing AI is a bit off, as
             well as their cost of living estimates, which feed off the
             previous data.

        iv. They have moved into the iBuyer space and do arbitraging.

Differentiation/Defensibility: They are currently not very
differentiated. They may use more technology than “traditional” brokers,
but for the most part they work like them. Their main form of growth is
through acquisitions, which are not differentiated at all, they just
require capital.

Team: ~500 full-time employees in 2020. 17,000+ real estate agents.
Founding team:

1.  Robert Reffkin(Co-Founder & CEO)

    a.  Ex-Goldman Sachs, The White House, Lazard, McKinsey & Company.
        Columbia University in the City of New York BA 1999, Columbia
        University - Columbia Business School MBA 2003.

2.  Ugo Di Girolamo (Co-Founder)

    a.  Ex-Twitter, Co-Founder Julpan, Google, GE Security. Sapienza
        University of Rome MS 1998.

3.  Eric Prigot (Co-Founder)

    a.  Ex-TripleMint, The Corcoran Group. Virginia Tech BS 2003,
        Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University MS.

4.  Ori Allon (Co-Founder & Executive Chairman)

    a.  Ex-Twitter, Orion. University of New South Wales in Sydney PhD.

Open positions for hiring: Real Estate Salesperson (Many places), Real
Estate Agent (Many places), Listings Coordinator (Many places),
Transaction Coordinator, Sourcer (Contract), Mobile Engineer, Buyer’s
Agent, Machine Learning Scientist Internship, Recruiting Coordinator
(Contract), Product Support Specialist, Technical Sourcer (Contract),
Project Coordinator. Most jobs are real estate related, not technology.
Link to full list

Traction: $900M (2018 revenue) * 14.9% average retained commission split
= $134.1M.

Business model: They retain a percentage of the commissions agents get
by using the platform. The percentage is specific to each individual
agent and is tied to their performance. 10%-30% is the usual.

Go-to-market: Beginning in 2016, COmpass began a new strategy of growth
through acquisition. Compass’ strategy is to deploy their funding
capital by luring the top agents and brokers to its team (in real estate
brokerages agent count is the primary driver of revenue). Compass offers
high commission splits, bonuses, marketing funds and stock options to
entice agents to join. Since 2018, after its $550M cash infusion,
management began acquiring entire brokerages, which accelerate the
growth of Compass’ agent count.

[]

Press

1.  Mike DelPrete talks about the sustainability of Compass and its
    inner workings (Full PDF)

2.  Comparing Redfin, Compass and Purplebricks (Seeking Alpha)

3.  The definitive guide to the Compass C-Suite (The Real Deal –
    Subscription Required)

4.  Compass acquired Seattle proptech startup Modus (Real Estate Weekly
    – Subscription Required)

5.  How Compass Became the Bane of Real Estate (Marker)

6.  Compass expands to Hawaii (The Real Deal – Subscription Required)

7.  Compass make good on diversity pledge, adding Charles Phillips to
    board (The Real Deal – Subscription Required)

8.  Cash, no stock: COmpass aims to cut down any Avid Dorfman windfall
    (The Real Deal – Subscription Required)

9.  Compass debuts AI tool to advise on home renovations (The Real Deal
    – Subscription Required)

10. Compass’ hunt for a securities attorney reignites talk of IPO (The
    Real Deal – Subscription Required)

11. Seeking “a seat at the table,” Compass’ Aaron Seawood jumps to
    Triplemint (The Real Deal – Subscription Required)

12. Compass’ chief people officer is out (The Real Deal – Subscription
    Required)

13. Compass faces a reckoning (The Real Deal – Subscription Required)

14. Compass is going to trial in Avi Dorfman case (The Real Deal –
    Subscription Required)

15. Compass co-founder Ori Allon gets into the movie business (The Real
    Deal – Subscription Required)

16. Compass to lay off marketing, IT and M&A staffers (The Real Dea –
    Subscription Required)


Cruise

Recommendation: The market is huge, and they are one of the leaders in
self-driving and ride-sharing, with strong competition in the latter
category only from Waymo. I cannot give a yes or no because I do not
have the valuation data for the company. The TAM is so big, that if the
valuation is a reasonable amount, I recommend investing because I think
this company has a lot of potential to grow and continue being one of
the leaders in the market.

Opportunity: Acquire a forward contract for $112,347 at 90% FMV under
option from JP Posma, Cruise’s Staff Software Engineer / Tech Lead from
May 2018 to August 2020. He wants to buy a house and is excited to turn
his restricted stock into money..

Purchase price per share of $3.37, a 10% discount to the fair market
value per share of $3.75 (per Pitchbook).

Cruise’s latest round of financing was a $1.08B PE Growth/Expansion
round closed in August 2020 at an unknown pre-money and post-money
valuation. Undisclosed investors were involved in the round.

Previous Rounds:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deal Type               Date           Amount         Pre-Val        Post-Val
  ----------------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- --------------
  Secondary Transaction - January 2020   Unknown        Unknown        Unknown
  Private                                                              

  PE Growth/Expansion     July 2019      $3.35B         Unknown        Unknown

  PE Growth/Expansion     May 2019       $1.15B         Unknown        $19B*

  Corporate               October 2018   $2.75B         Unknown        $48.25B*

  Merger/Acquisition      May 2016       $581M*         Unknown        $581M*

  Early Stage VC          December 2015  $2M            Unknown        Unknown

  Series A                September 2015 $16.89M        $67.58M        $84.47M

  Seed Round              August 2014    Unknown        Unknown        Unknown

  Accelerator/Incubator   March 2014     $100k          Unknown        $1.39M
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Estimated

Background: Founded in 2013 in San Francisco, California. Raised $8.33B
to date. 2,206 employees.

Summary: Cruise is an unattended vehicle company majority-owned by GM.
GM realized that they needed a system capable of navigating cities, so
they acquired a stake in Cruise. The technology the company produces
will be used for their cabs and could be used for other vehicles. It is
based on LIDAR.

Pain Point: Current self driving systems require human supervision,
hands on the wheel and pedals in case anything happens. Unattended self
driving opens a whole new set of possibilities, like trucks, taxis, and
delivery vehicles without drivers.

Product: Two parts. First is the self driving technology itself. They
have developed hardware and algorithms that allow a car to drive through
a busy city understanding that other vehicles most of the time will not
respect driving laws. The second part is autonomous taxis. Based on this
technology, they have built a vehicle capable of picking a passenger up
and dropping them off at another location without any human
intervention.

Market: According to “Verified Market Research” the Mobility as a
Service Market was valued at USD 49.67 Billion in 2019 and is projected
to reach USD 271.66 Billion by 2027, growing at a CAGR of 23.7% from
2020 to 2027.

According to Cruise’s valuations, ride-hailing sits at $5T, freight at
$2T, and data insights and in-vehicle experiences sit at $500B each.

Competition:

1.  Lidar-based:

    a.  Waymo

        i.  Much more focused on the “AI drivers” than in the
            ride-sharing services

        ii. Waymo One is a ride-sharing service

        iii. Biggest competitor, with approximately the same size, same
             yearly investment and

        iv. Slower growth of miles / disengagement (primary metric used
            for measuring the robustness of an unattended driving
            system)

    b.  ArgoAI

        i.  Backed by VW and Ford

        ii. Does not seek to create a car or operate a service but
            create a generic self-driving system that can be applied to
            any car

    c.  Aurora

        i.  Produce sensors and self-driving systems

        ii. Are creating a platform to take advantage of the
            self-driving capabilities will have in the future, including
            vehicle platforms, logistics services, mobility services and
            fleet management services

    d.  Uber

        i.  Sold its self-driving division to Aurora, which according to
            the founder helped them “accelerate” its mission to make
            self-driving cars a reality

    e.  Nuro

        i.  Focused on item deliver using its purpose-built, egg-shaped
            R2 autonomous vehicles

2.  Camera-based:

    a.  Tesla

        i.  Their systems require constant driver attention as they are
            not rated to unattended driving

    b.  Mobileye

        i.  Plans to add lidar and radar

        ii. The offer a suite of products, both for personal vehicles
            and for public transports

[]

Differentiation/Defensibility: Nothing appears to radically
differentiate them from the competition, but through their quick ramp up
they have proven they are capable of performing well

Team: 2,206 full-time employees in 2020. The leadership team consists of
around 13 people. These three are the most important:

1.  Kyle Vogt (Co-founder, President & CTO)

    a.  ex-Co-Founder Twitch, Justin.tv, Socialcam, Panasonic Boston
        Laboratory, iRobot. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2008

2.  Dan Ammann (CEO)

    a.  ex-President General Motors, MD Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse.
        The University of Waikato 1993

3.  Daniel Kan (Co-founder & CPO)

    a.  ex-Co-Founder EXEC, UserVoice, Justin.tv. Claremont McKenna
        College BA

Open positions for hiring: Senior Software Engineer (Machine Learning
Platform), Senior Hardware Engineer (Validation), Senior Site
Reliability Engineer, Senior Software Engineer (Embedded Linux), Senior
Vulnerability and Risk Engineer, Senior Structural CAE Engineer, Senior
Power Engineer. Link to full list

Traction: They do not have a public product yet, but they are already
advertising their ride-hailing platform in San Francisco. Big companies
like GM and Honda have invested and have stated that they will continue
to invest more money, indicating that they are content with the work
being done at Cruise. Earlier this year, they autonomous cab was
presented on stage.

Business model: Their business model has not been revealed yet, but I
expect them to offer ride hailing as a service to the public through
their robo-taxis and also to license their driving technology to other
manufacturers like Honda and GM.

Go-to-market: They want to start by testing the service in one big city
and then expanding at scale. They are doing an old-school ad campaign in
San Francisco to make the public aware of the service and get the launch
right. According to their plan, after this they would expand city by
city, starting out with the biggest ones.

Press

1.  Cruise is not testing fully driverless card in San Francisco (The
    Verge)

2.  Cruise CEO: Self-driving car market is ‘literally trillions of
    dollars’ (Fortune)

3.  Supervisors decry lack of local oversight over unmanned vehicles
    (San Francisco Examiner)

4.  Walmart to test deliveries by self-driving car with General Motors’
    Cruise (CNBC)

5.  Tesla Autopilot loses to GM Super Cruise due to lack of driver
    monitoring in industry-wide test (Electrek.co)

6.  Cruise, GM to see U.S. okay for self-driving vehicle without pedal,
    steering wheel (Reuters)

7.  Tesla Begins “Full Self Driving” Public Beta As Waymo And Cruise Go
    Unattended (Hackaday)


1.  ¿Cuál fue la Visión de Kroc cuando vió el negocio de los hermanos Mc
    Donald por primera vez?

  Kroc se imaginó una red de franquicias, que en ese momento se imaginó
  que se esparciría por todo el país, de restaurantes super eficiente
  que implementasen el fordista Speedy System. Quería construir una
  marca con una fuerte identidad, que se presentasen de la misma manera,
  y con los mismo productos, en todas sus sucursales.

  El emprendedor buscaba que los McDonald’s se volviesen tan elementales
  como los ayuntamientos y las iglesias, y se estableciesen como un
  lugar de reunión.

  Los franquiciados recibirían las instrucciones a seguir para no
  desfigurar la marca y mantener la eficiencia de producción y las
  características impecables de los productos.

2.  ¿Cómo era el modelo de negocios de los hermanos?

  El modelo de negocio de los hermanos, no era muy capitalista, en el
  sentido de que lo que buscaban no era únicamente ganar dinero, sino
  perfeccionar un sistema de producción y proveer un servicio de calidad
  en restaurantes con un ambiente familiar.

  También les preocupaba mantener el nombre familiar, por lo que no
  querían que locales con su nombre proveyesen un mal servicio.

3.  ¿A quiénes fue incorporando al negocio, que le fueron sumando como
    valor agregado?

  Kroc comenzó por incorporar al negocio a los compañeros de su club.
  Estos lo trataron como un chiste, porque sabían que las ideas de Kroc
  no solían tener mucho éxito. Sin embargo, algunos decidieron invertir
  luego de que la insistencia de Kroc los convenciese de que era un buen
  negocio.

  El problema de estos acaudalados señores era que como no dependían de
  estos locales para vivir, les dieron poca importancia, y no se
  encargaron de que se cumpliesen a raja tabla los estándares de calidad
  y los lineamientos de la marca.

  Kroc buscó entonces a otro tipo de persona para que se encargasen de
  las franquicias. Se dio cuenta de que necesitaba gente trabajadora y
  con la misma mentalidad que él. Empezó a contactarse, en consecuencia,
  con gente que tenía un origen parecido al de él. No muy adinerados,
  pero feroces trabajadores dispuestos a trabajar duro para ver a sus
  franquicias tener éxito. Además estas personas estaban incentivadas a
  llevar al máximo el rendimiento de sus locales por el hecho de que la
  mayoría había pedido un préstamo o hipotecado su casa para poder
  pagarlos, por lo que lo perderían todo en caso de que el
  emprendimiento no fuese exitoso.

  En conclusión, lo que Kroc consiguió fueron personas dispuestas a
  mantener los altísimos estándares que él esperaba de los restaurantes
  de McDonald’s, preservando los lineamientos de la marca impuestos por
  la central.

4.  ¿Cuáles de las que se presentaron como barreras se convirtieron en
    oportunidad? Desarrollen el Mix de Marketing

  Producto: Una cantidad limitada de productos alimenticios, de muy
  buena calidad, entregados en tiempos mínimos por empleados que se
  preocupasen por la satisfacción del cliente.

  Precio: Reducido en comparación con otros lugares de comida. Este se
  pudo alcanzar mediante la optimización del proceso de comida, ayudado
  por la limitada cantidad de comidas en el menú, y en ocasiones, por la
  utilización de ingredientes alternativos (forma linda de decir
  inferiores, porque en teoría McDonald’s se focaliza en comida “de
  calidad”).

  Plaza: Todas las tiendas de McDonald’s en el país (en ese momento,
  ahora en el mundo).

  Promoción: Kroc realizó muchas entrevistas, para dar a conocer el
  nuevo fenómeno que estaba arrasando en todos los pueblos del país. Se
  intentó vender, como una parte integral de la cultura norteamericana.
  Además, para diferenciarse de cualquier otro local de comida rápida o
  hamburguesas, se focalizó mucho la compañía en diseñar una marca
  distintiva, que quedase grabada en la mente de la gente, y que fuese
  fácilmente reconocible e identificable.

5.  ¿Cuáles fueron las experiencias que Kroc fue creando a medida que
    transcurría el tiempo?

  Kroc tuvo la visión, que con el tiempo logró implementar, de que un
  McDonald’s fuese tan esencial y común en los pueblos estadounidenses
  como la iglesia o la alcaldía.

  Kroc quería que pudiesen asociarse fuertemente todos los McDonald’s
  del país, por lo que se esforzó por mantener un estilo muy similar a
  lo largo de todas las edificaciones. Los arcos dorados debían estar
  obligatoriamente en todos los locales. De esta forma, se podría
  comenzar a construir la idea de que “este local que se llama
  McDonald’s” está en todo el país, y todos los pueblos tienen uno.

  Se terminó cumpliendo su deseo de que hubiese por lo menos una
  franquicia por ciudad de Estados Unidos, y se sobrepasó. En muchas
  ciudades hay más de un local, y la McDonald’s llegó a ser la cadena de
  comida rápida más grande del mundo.

6.  ¿Describan el buyer persona de los elegidos para las franquicias?

  Kroc se dio cuenta de que las personas a las que se había dirigido
  originalmente para franquiciar el negocio no eran las ideales. Eran
  personas afluentes que no necesitaban del local para subsistir, por lo
  que le prestaban poca importancia y no se cercioraban que se
  cumpliesen los requisitos impuestos desde la central para los
  franquiciantes.

  Kroc se dio cuenta entonces que necesitaba en la posición gente
  dedicada, con la misma pasión que él, y encontró que había una
  correlación entre la gente que cumplía sus requisitos y la gente que
  tenía necesidades económicas que no podía suplir con sus medios
  actuales.

  El buyer persona solían ser empleados de clase media baja, o
  vendedores ambulantes. Persistentes y tenaces, sin capital suficiente
  para invertir en un local. Lo tenían que pedir mediante préstamos o
  hipotecas, lo que aumentaba su necesidad de que el local fuese
  exitoso.

7.  Describan a los buyer persona que compran en Mc donald's

  El buyer persona de Mc Donald’s no fue una única persona, sino más
  bien un grupo reducido de individuos, una familia. Se presentó como
  una alternativa rápida, barata y sencilla (no había que lavar nada)
  orientada a la familia. En parte esto se debía a que los “malos”
  sectores, como los pandilleros, que se solían acercar al antiguo
  estilo de restaurantes con autos y motos, debido al esquema de los Mc
  Donald’s, ya no aparecían.

  Si se tuviese que elegir un único individuo como ejemplo del buyer
  persona, elegiría a las personas que dirigen comúnmente el lugar donde
  se come, en caso de salir, los padres.

  Para dar un ejemplo, elegiría a una madre, de una familia de tres, que
  cuando en la casa no hay comida para cocinar, y ni ella ni el padre
  tienen ganas de ir al supermercado, salen por una comida rápida a un
  Mc Donald’s.


1.  Explicar las técnicas de conmutación de circuito y conmutación de
    paquetes.

  Con la técnica de conmutación de circuitos, se realiza una conexión
  única entre dos o más nodos. Solo pueden comunicarse entre sí estos
  dispositivos mientras esté establecida la conexión. Pero si un nodo
  desea enviarle información distinta a otro nodo, debe desconectarse
  del canal original y establecer una nueva conexión para poder enviarle
  la información.

  La técnica de conmutación de paquetes consiste en segmentar la
  información a mandar en pequeños paquetes que se envían a distintos
  destinos. Se puede en paralelo enviar información a varios nodos
  intercalando los paquetes de información que corresponden a los
  distintos destinos.

2.  Explicar las técnicas de Orientado a la conexión y no orientado a la
    conexión.

  Con las técnicas orientadas a la conexión, se comprueba primero que
  sea posible establecer la conexión, y luego se establece, de otra
  forma recibirás un mensaje de que no ha sido posible establecer la
  conexión. En cambio, en las técnicas no orientadas a la conexión uno
  envía el mensaje, y durante el envío no se compruebe que el destino al
  que va dirigido el mensaje exista ni que lo reciba.

3.  ¿Qué es y para qué sirve el Modelo OSI?

  El modelo osi es un modelo de referencia (a diferencia de una norma,
  es una recomendación y no una obligación seguirlo) que indica cómo ser
  compatibles, entre sí, a los dispositivos de intercambio de
  información.

4.  Enumerar, en orden, cada una de las capas del Modelo OSI y realizar
    una descripción de la función que cumple cada capa.

  Aplicación: el programa que se ejecuta además de cómo y para que lo
  hace.

  Presentación: Se encarga del format, cifrado y compresión de datos.
  Garantiza que la información que envía la capa de aplicación de un
  dispositivo pueda ser leída por la capa de aplicación de dispositivo.

  Sesión: Control de diálogo, transacción y de las conversaciones que
  van por la red. Controla las transacciones, si llegara a fallar una
  acción se deben de anular las otras. Se encarga de que los
  dispositivos puedan identificar a los otros con los que se comunican y
  que la información correspondiente le llegue a cada uno.

  Transporte: Se encarga de mantener ordenada las conversaciones, que
  pueden ser múltiples (por ejemplo, páginas web). Es la capa encargada
  de la gestión de puertos. No se pueden usar puertos menores a 1024
  para estas conversaciones porque por debajo, son puertos conocidos.

  Red: Proporciona conectividad y selección de ruta entre dos sistemas
  de hosts (dispositivo final) que pueden estar ubicados en redes
  geográficamente distintas. Se encarga de rutear y conmutar paquetes.

  Enlace de datos: Proporciona tránsito de datos confiable a través de
  un enlace físico. Se encarga de la topología de red, de la
  distribución ordenada de tramas, del acceso al medio de comunicación,
  de la alerta de errores, del MAC (control de acceso al medio), y del
  LLC (control lógico de acceso). En esta capa se encuentra la placa de
  red, que posee una MAC (dirección física).

  Esta capa se divide en dos, LLC está controlada por software, y es
  superior, y MAC, controlada por hardware, inferior.

  Física: Establece especificaciones eléctricas, mecánicas, de
  procedimiento (cómo se transmite, cómo se codifica, qué lenguaje se
  utiliza, en qué orden se manda, etc) y funcionales para activar,
  mantener y desactivar el enlace físico entre sistemas finales. Es la
  única capa del modelo OSI que tiene un conexión de tipo punto a punto.

5.  Explicar el proceso de encapsulamiento de datos (indicar qué
    información adicional se agrega en cada paso del encapsulamiento.

  Transporte (segmento): En la capa de transporte se agrega la
  información del puerto y se dividen se identifican los segmentos.

  Red (paquete): El paquete no cambia de IP de origen ni de destino al
  menos que se realice NAT (Network Address Translation).

  Enlace (trama): La MAC de origen y destino cambia a medida que se van
  atravesando las distintas redes. Detecta errores a través de los bits
  de checksum de las tramas.

  Física (bit):

6.  Definir qué es el Método de Acceso al Medio.

  El conjunto de reglas y el protocolo que había que seguir para
  comenzar a emitir información en el medio al que está conectado la
  compu.

  Hay dos tipos de métodos de acceso al medio, determinísticos y o
  determinísticos.

7.  ¿Qué es una dirección física?, ¿Qué tipo de direccionamiento es? ¿En
    qué capa del Modelo OSI se encuentra?

  Una dirección física, como lo es una MAC, está ligada a la placa de
  red. Es única en el mundo. Es un direccionamiento plano ya que brinda
  ninguna información la dirección en sí. Se encuentra en la capa 2.

8.  ¿Qué es una dirección lógica? ¿Qué tipo de direccionamiento es? ¿En
    qué capa del Modelo OSI se encuentra?

  Una dirección lógica, como el IP, es aquella que identifica a un
  dispositivo dentro de una red. Tiene un direccionamiento jerárquico y
  brinda información, ya que determina dónde se encuentra en la red un
  dispositivo. Se encuentra en la capa 3.

9.  Explicar el funcionamiento de una placa de red. ¿En qué capa del
    Modelo OSI opera?

Opera en la capa 2,

10. Explicar que función cumple el switch. ¿En qué capa del Modelo OSI
    trabaja?

  Segmentar la red, dividiendo dominios de colisión para mejorar el
  ancho de banda. Para más de 2 dominios. Trabaja en la capa 2. Conmutar
  segmentos.

  CAM: mapea direcciones mac a puerto.

11. Explicar que función cumple el router. ¿En qué capa opera?

  Divide dominios de difusión (dominios de broadcast). Define dónde
  empieza y dónde termina la red. Trabaja en la capa 3. Limita los
  dominios de broadcast

12. ¿Qué es TCP y UDP? ¿Qué función cumplen y en qué capa se encuentran?

  TCP(confirmación/orientado a conexión) es el Transmission Control
  Protocol y UDP(no confirmado) es el User Datagram Protocol. Son
  protocolos de transmisión de datos en el Internet. El resto no sabemos
  nada excepto que TCP tiene acuse de recibo y UDP no. Capa 4

13. ¿Qué es un protocolo de red?

  Es un conjunto de instrucciones y reglas que determinan cómo
  transmitir e intercambiar información.

14. Nombrar y explicar al menos 5 protocolos y/o servicios de red que
    utiliza a diario.

-   SMTP

-   FTP

-   TFTP

-   HTTP

-   HTTPS

15. Dada la dirección 10.10.100.100/18 indicar:

    a.  Indicar la clase

  Clase A

b.  Indicar la Máscara de Subred en Decimal

  11111111.11111111.11000000.00000000 (255.255.192.0)

c.  Cuántos bits se tomaron prestados para crear subredes

  18 - 8 = 10 bits prestados

d.  Cuantos subredes se pueden utilizar

  1022

e.  Cuantos host utilizables tiene cada una de las subredes

  32 - 18 = 14

f.  A que subred pertenece

  10.10.64.0

g.  Rango de host de la subred

  64.1 a 127.255

h.  Dirección de broadcast de la subred

10.10.127.255


Primero - Aprender un lenguaje de programación -> JavaScript

https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-javascript-course/

Segundo - Framework base para frontend -> React

https://www.udemy.com/course/react-the-complete-guide-incl-redux/

Tercero - Framework para aplicaciones móbiles -> React Native

https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-react-native-and-redux-course/

Cuarto - Framework para backend -> NodeJS y Express

https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-nodejs-developer-course-2/

Quinto - Typescript es un lenguaje casi igual a JavaScript con un poco
más de funcionalidad

https://www.udemy.com/course/understanding-typescript/

Sexto - Framework para backend robusto -> NestJS

https://www.udemy.com/course/nestjs-zero-to-hero/


1.  Defina los factores de comportamiento e identifíquelos en el caso.

  Factores culturales: Los factores culturales son de los más
  importantes, porque tienen una influencia amplia y profunda. Son dos.
  Primero, la cultura, que es el conjunto de valores, ideas, deseos,
  percepciones y comportamientos que un miembro de una sociedad aprende
  de su familia y de instituciones importantes. Segundo, las clases
  sociales, que son divisiones de valores, intereses y comportamientos
  semipermanentes entre miembros de una sociedad.

  En este caso, el ver películas o series podría ser considerado un
  factor de este tipo, originado en la cultura occidental. Netflix, por
  su bajo precio, apunta a ser accesible para la mayor población posible
  en los distintos países, y esto se puede relacionar con una
  disponibilidad para casi todas las clases sociales.

  Factores sociales: Los factores sociales son aquellos influenciados
  por los grupos a los que uno pertenece. El grupo u organización más
  importante en una sociedad es la familia, luego le siguen los grupos
  de pertenencia, que suelen ser pequeños, y tienen influencia directa,
  y por último están los grupos de referencia, que se pueden utilizar
  para una comparación directa o indirecta de las actividades y
  comportamientos. Factores que influencia también son el estatus de
  cada persona en un grupo, es decir, la posición en la que se
  encuentra, y el rol, es decir su función, o la tarea que se espera que
  realice como parte del grupo.

  Netflix incentiva la creación de cuentas familiares, uno de los grupos
  más importantes, según la teoría, y hay varios shows para mirar en
  conjunto, pero no se olvidan de la individualidad de cada persona, por
  lo que fue introducida la funcionalidad de agregar múltiples
  subcuentas para cada individuo de la familia. Esto le permite a
  Netflix aprender de los gustos de cada uno y recomendarles contenido
  apropiado.

  Factores personales: Estos factores también tienen una importante
  influencia. Entre ellos se encuentran la edad, la etapa del ciclo de
  vida, y el trabajo de uno, que determina qué bienes uno quiere y es
  capaz de adquirir.

  La edad y la etapa del ciclo de vida determinan, en parte, los gustos
  de una persona. Netflix usa una serie de algoritmos y de tecnología de
  avanzada, para aprender a partir de los patrones de consumición de
  contenido, los gustos de sus clientes. Esta información recolectada
  puede luego ser usada para hacer recomendaciones inteligentes sobre
  futuras series o películas a ver.

  Factores psicológicos: Estos factores, que en mi opinión pueden llegar
  a entre mezclarse con los personales, incluyen el aprendizaje
  individual, las actitudes de cada uno, y motivaciones, ya sea de
  satisfacer alguna necesidad biológica que genera tensión, como el
  hambre o la sed, o que surgen a partir de la necesidad de ser
  reconocidos, o de pertenecer a algún grupo.

  Yo creo que Netflix tiene varios puntos en los que se relaciona con
  los factores psicológicos. Por un lado, el factor de aprendizaje
  individual. Este modela los gustos de uno, y por lo tanto, el
  contenido que uno consume, pero a la vez, Netflix es parte del proceso
  de aprendizaje. Por ejemplo, conozco personas que comenzaron a
  investigar sobre el veganismo a partir del documental What the Health,
  disponible en Netflix, y últimamente terminaron volviéndose veganas. A
  esto yo lo considero parte del proceso de aprendizaje.

  Otro punto de relación que se me ocurrió es el de la necesidad de
  pertenecer a algún grupo. En ciertos grupos, están de moda ciertas
  series, que los integrantes se ven “obligados” a ver para mantenerse
  al tanto de lo que ocurre y poder conversarlo con sus compañeros. Hay
  series que cumplen con esto como Stranger Things, que solo se
  encuentran disponibles en Netflix.

2.  ¿Cómo cambió la misión de la compañía?

  “Nuestra estrategia principal es crecer nuestro negocio de suscripción
  de streaming domésticamente y globalmente. Estamos continuamente
  mejorando nuestra experiencia de usuario, con un foco sobre la
  expansión de de nuestro contenido de streaming, mejorando nuestra
  interfaz de usuario y extendiendo nuestro servicio de streaming a cada
  vez más dispositivos conectados a internet, manteniéndonos dentro de
  los parámetros de nuestro ingreso neto consolidado y nuestros
  objetivos de ganancias de nuestra contribución de segmento operativo.”

  “Prometemos a nuestros clientes un servicio estelar, a nuestros
  proveedores un socio valioso, a nuestros inversores las posibilidades
  de un crecimiento rentable sostenido, y a nuestros empleados el
  atractivo de un gran impacto.”

  La original no la encontré. Encontré la actual, de de abajo, que fue
  extraída de la “quest” de Netflix, del documento de cultura creado por
  Reed Hastings. Según Reed la “quest” equivaldría a una misión. La de
  arriba fue obtenida de una página tercera, y al parecer mucho más
  focalizada en lo técnico, interpreto que es una misión más primitiva,
  anterior a la segunda que encontramos.

  La parte de mantener lo económico estable se mantiene, aunque con otro
  lenguaje.

  Todo el resto cambia, pero la parte de proveer al cliente un servicio
  estelar proviene fuertemente de mejorar la experiencia de usuario.

  Se agrega la parte de ser un socio valioso para sus proveedores y de
  proveerle las chances a sus empleados de tener un gran impactio.

3.  ¿Cuál/les de los métodos de investigación de mercados creen que
    utiliza Netflix para encontrar sus audiencias? Nómbrelos y
    ejemplifique con el caso.

  Netflix utiliza investigación descriptiva, para intentar describir los
  gustos de cada consumidor específico (lo que resulta útil a la hora de
  recomendarle contenido) y para describir los gustos de su clientela en
  general (lo que resulta útil a la hora de decidir si proceder o no con
  la producción de algún nuevo show o película). Este objetivo de
  investigación se utiliza con investigación por observación (se
  analizan varios factores sobre los patrones de consumición de
  contenido de los usuarios) y con investigación por encuesta (se les
  pregunta a los usuarios si algún show o película que terminaron les
  gustó o disgustó).

  Estos últimos dos enfoques también se utilizan con el objetivo de
  investigación exploratoria, ya que para formular una hipótesis
  generalizada de por qué un sector o funcionalidad de la app no está
  siendo usada, o por qué tal o cuál película o serie no está teniendo
  el éxito que se esperaba, se utiliza la información recolectada sobre
  los gustos y los patrones de los usuarios.

  El enfoque de investigación experimental creo que en Netflix se
  utiliza para la investigación descriptiva. Se le presenta
  funcionalidad nueva en etapa beta a un número reducido de usuarios
  para predecir cuán exitosa sería o cuál sería su recepción.

4.  Realice un listado con la competencia.

-   Hulu

-   Amazon Prime Video

-   HBO+

-   Paramount

-   YouTube Red

-   Disney Plus

-   Plataformas Argentinas: Movistar Play, Claro Video y Flow

-   Plataformas de India: Hay más de 30 no mencionadas locales de India,
    que me imagino que tendrán una mayor cantidad de contenido local y
    específico para sus audiencias

5.  ¿Cómo fue cambiando el producto que ofrecen desde los inicios de la
    compañía hasta hoy?

  La objetivo de la compañía originalmente se centraba en proveer un
  servicio de distribución de contenidos. Al principio esto ocurría de
  manera física, con el envío de DVDs a las casas de sus clientes, y
  luego evolucionó a una plataforma de streaming en tiempo real.

  Greg Peters, el jefe de producto global define a Netflix como “Somos
  una empresa de contenidos que vive en la intersección de contenido,
  creatividad y tecnología”. Todd Yellin, la vicepresidente de producto,
  agrega que ve “... la singularidad de Netflix en que somos una
  compañía de doble hélice de entretenimiento, apoyada por una
  plataforma de tecnología”.

  Hoy en día se dedican principalmente a proveer un servicio de
  streaming primerísima calidad a través del reconocimiento de los
  gustos personales de cada uno con procesos y algoritmos muy complejos
  y nutridos de grandes cantidades de datos. A la vez, buscan cada vez
  más generar el contenido que se muestra en su plataforma, no solo
  comprarle las licencias a otras productoras.

6.  ¿Por qué es una amenaza para Hollywood? Desarrolle.

  Puede (no creo que necesariamente lo sea) resultar una amenaza a
  Hollywood porque cuando uno tiene contenido original, ya sean series o
  películas, de calidad, sin propagandas o esperas de ningún tipo, por
  un precio sumamente barato comparado con el de los cines, y encima, no
  tiene que moverse de la comodidad de la casa, uno puede llegar a
  disminuir las visitas al cine, reduciendolas a excepciones para
  películas que realmente despierten el interés de uno y que no se vean
  en netflix. Esto implicaría un gran declive en las ventas de la
  industria de Hollywood en su totalidad.

  En mi opinión, es en gran parte por esto, que personajes importantes
  de la industria de Hollywood hayan protestado cuando una película
  producida por Netflix y mostrada en su plataforma, fue nominada para
  un Oscar. Argumentaron, probablemente como una excusa, que solo pueden
  aplicar las películas que fueron mostradas en el cine. Por esta razón,
  Netflix, interesado en que su película participase de los Oscars, se
  vio obligado a mostrar su pelicula en la pantalla grande en algunos
  lugares.

7.  ¿De qué manera ingresa en los distintos mercados con sus contenidos?

  El medio de transmisión, en parte influencia lo que la gente consume,
  pero el cambio de gusto es un proceso de alteración cultural que lleva
  mucho tiempo, por eso, no le resulta conveniente a Netflix penetrar en
  mercados extranjeros, con culturas muy distintas a la occidental con
  contenidos originales de Estados Unidos. Netflix, adoptó la
  inteligente estrategia de llevar a cabo la creación de series y
  películas junto con productoras locales de más de treinta países. De
  esta forma, se facilitan el ingreso a mercados más cerrados.

  Los shows que Netflix decide realizar, sin embargo, no apuntan
  necesariamente a la India, o a la Argentina, apuntan a los gustos
  individuales de los usuarios de Netflix, y se crea contenido que se
  cree que va a gustar en general.

  Los datos que recolectan sobre los gustos de los usuarios y cómo estos
  se relacionan con cada show o película se utilizan para darles
  feedback a los creadores y para decidir si se debe seguir con la
  producción o terminarla.

  Los contenidos, para que lleguen a la audiencia más grande posible,
  son doblados y subtitulados a la mayor cantidad de idiomas posibles.

Fuentes

-   https://www.slideshare.net/reed2001/culture-1798664/2-Netflix_CultureFreedom_Responsibility2

-   https://www.quora.com/What-are-Netflixs-mission-statement-and-vision

-   https://netflixcompanyprofile.weebly.com/

-   https://eticaprofesional8.webnode.mx/news/mision-vision-y-valores-de-netflix/

-   https://campus.belgrano.ort.edu.ar/educaciontecnologica/articulo/1084324/capitulo-5


My name is Iñaki. I am an international student studying at Harvard
University.

Coming from Argentina, a country with a history of deep economic
trouble, I have always been passionate about understanding the factors
that affect the state of the market and how we can model them to make
better decisions.

Working at an early-stage VC firm over my gap year fostered in me an
interest in investments but left me wanting to develop a more rigorous
and analytical approach towards making investment decisions.

Because of this I decided to pursue studies in Math and Statistics, with
Computer Science to tie these together and apply them in the real world.

I would like learn in an environment where technical people with diverse
perspectives collaborate to solve complex problems and would love to
help by providing my own.

I look forward to being considered for the Fellowship!

Best regards,

Iñaki Arango


I am writing to express my interest in the Nexus fellowship. As a
current sophomore at Harvard University, majoring in computer science
and statistics I am particularly drawn to the academic culture that the
company retains while tackling real-world challenges. I have always
looked for ways to apply my studies and interests to my work, and this
fellowship presents an incredible opportunity to learn from diverse and
talented leaders.

I am currently taking classes in algorithms, statistical inference,
multidimensional calculus, and corporate finance, which pair well with
D.E.Shaws market research and investing operations.

My interest in investing, my studies, and my background as a
Argentinian/Latino in finance align well with the program's focus on
diversity and inclusion. I look forward to hearing from you and would
greatly appreciate your consideration of my application.

Best regards,

Iñaki Arango


If you are applying to the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences as a
first year applicant, please discuss why you consider Duke a good match
for you. Is there something particular about Duke that attracts you?
(Please limit your response to no more than 250 words.)

I have created several programs, but its was through the development of
a navigation app for the blind community and a health reimbursement
platform for people with disabilities that I developed a passion for
applying computer science to health for the benefit of society.

Duke’s Structural Biology & Biophysics Program offers an incredible
opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I also want to
conduct independent research hosted by Duke Center for Genomic and
Computational Biology. I have genetic acute scoliosis, and was
interested in developing prediction algorithms for the condition so that
the onset could be prevented.

I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track and with a
cohort in my highschool and I look forward to a tight-knit environment
within which to form meaningful relationships with students in all areas
of study. Another aspect I am looking forward to is the close
relationships with faculty that Duke encourages. I have benefited
enormously from the mentorship of my teachers in the past and hope to
engage with professors at Duke in similar ways. For example, with Bruce
Donald, who is researching algorithms for building and simulating
proteins.

With everything I learn at Duke I want to become an entrepreneur working
on socially-minded tech. Duke can provide me with the tools necessary to
achieve this through its Innovation & Entrepreneurship program. I am
encouraged in this by stories like that of Transcriptic, a Duke-born
biological analysis company that raised funds after participating in
Duke’s Startup Challenge.

dawdawd

(Optional) Duke University seeks a talented, engaged student body that
embodies the wide range of human experience; we believe that the
diversity of our students makes our community stronger. If you'd like to
share a perspective you bring or experiences you've had to help us
understand you better-perhaps related to a community you belong to or
your family or cultural background-we encourage you to do so. Real
people are reading your application, and we want to do our best to
understand and appreciate the real people applying to Duke. (250 word
limit)

PP

There are two key contributions I want to make to Duke’s diverse student
body.

The first is the perspective I have developed from growing up in
Argentina. Our economy is very dependent on external factors, and cannot
sustain itself. This has forced me to strive for cheaper, simpler and
more practical solutions for the problems I want to solve such that
everyone can benefit from them. I also attribute part of my creativity
and persistence to the trials of implementing innovative solutions
within extremely bureaucratic Argentine institutions.

Overall, I believe my experience growing up in Argentina has provided me
with a unique perspective and problem solving approach.

The second factor is my experience with scoliosis, a condition that
forced me to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. It was
noticeable even under a shirt and made me feel different. I couldn’t
play outside with my friends, and people who didn’t know me would steer
away in public.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently due to my
conscientious efforts at the gym. My experience with scoliosis made me
realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the extreme importance of sensitivity to the feelings and circumstances
of others.

I hope to bring both of these perspectives and experiences to Duke’s
campus next year.

(Optional) Duke's commitment to diversity and inclusion includes sexual
orientation, gender identity and gender expression. If you would like to
share with us more about how you identify as LGBTQIA+, and have not done
so elsewhere in the application, we invite you to do so here.

Purposefully left empty.


Why Duke?

-   Explain my projects.

-   Duke’s Structural Biology & Biophysics Program enables me to mix my
    two passions, CS and biochemistry. They also have Duke Center for
    Genomic and Computational Biology. I have acute scoliosis, and was
    interested in developing prediction algorithms for the condition. So
    the onset could be prevented.

-   Bruce Donald, working on protein prediction.

-   AI for scoial good and Computational soial coice

-   I have grown a lot from being on a specialized track in high school.
    I believe Duke’s tight-knit community and small classes will allow
    me to continue learning from other people, from all areas of study.

-   Connecting with professors, like Bruce Donald.

-   With everything I learn at Duke I want to become an entrepreneur
    working on socially-minded tech. Duke can provide me with the tools
    necessary to achieve this through its Innovation & Entrepreneurship
    program. I am encouraged in this by stories like that of
    Transcriptic, a Duke-born biological analysis company that raised
    funds after participating in Duke’s Startup Challenge.

Questions

-   Were you part of any international students organization?

-   How would you describe the culture at Duke? Does it feel weird to be
    a foreigner?

-   Were your professors approachable? Did you feel you could as tem
    things or even talk about topics not related directly to your
    classes?

-   Which part of the Duke experience do you believe had the biggest
    influence on you? Did you keep in touch with other alumni?

-   What was you favorite part of studying at Duke?


Test Questions on Macroeconomics

Multiple-choice Questions

1.  Rules of GDP

2.  Unemployment rate (how to calculate that, how to calculate
    participation rate, how to calculate cyclical unemployment)

3.  Rules of GDP (Real and nominal)

4.  Understanding different types of workers

5.  Being able to use the price indexes (GDP deflators, CPI,
    grandfather-type problem)

6.  GDP question

7.  What is included and not included in GDP

8.  Understanding the difference between real and nominal

9.  Application question of Real vs Nominal

10. Grandfather-type problem (using CPI to compare a current wage to a
    past wage to see which one’s better)

11. Fisher Equation problem (HW)

12. Understanding GDP

13. Understanding different types of workers

14. Understanding the rules of GDP (comes from multiple quizzes
    questions)

15. Understanding different types of workers

16. Labour supply and demand

17. Two period consumer model problem (Up or down arrows, like the
    recitation)

18. Savings and investment in an open economy (have graph next to you:
    savings vs. investment; autarky interest rate vs. world interest
    rate)

19. “Which of the following is not true about an economy with the real
    interest rate below the autarky interest rate?” -Verbatim question

20. Two-period consumer, Up/Down arrows or ? ambiguous

21. National Savings

22. Labor supply and demand question

23. Savings and investment in an open economy

24. Marginal analysis type problem (using UCC calculate marginal cost)

25. Two period consumer model problem

26. Savings/investment supply/demand in the investment/capital market

27. Solow growth model (will be a short answer about solow@end, might
    wanna check that one out first)

28. Solow growth model

29. Solow growth model

30. Solow growth model

31. Aggregate supply and demand (understanding curves)

32. Search and matching model unemployment type question (4 fill in the
    blanks, separations rate, wage/payroll tax, unemployment benefits
    (b), frequency of job offers (p))

33. Same as 32.

34. Understanding Aggregate supply and demand

35. Aggregate supply and demand (understanding curves)

36. Aggregate supply and demand

37. Different sides of economics (neoclassical, keynesian, supply side,
    Reaga-nomics, how they feel about personal income tax cuts.

38. “Whenever there’s a policy taken, there’s gonna be additional
    effects to that policy. Understand the positive and negative effects
    of them “-Jimmy

39. *tough one* About the Phillips curve and its connection to monetary
    policy. “Think about how monetary affects prices and unemployment
    through the Phillips curve”

40. How monetary policy can affect net exports

41. Understanding roles of money

42. Curves in aggregate supply and demand, moving along, shifts

43. Aggregate supply and demand

44. Accommodating monetary policy, spending more money, worried about
    crowding out effects, [expansionary monetary policy with
    expansionary fiscal policy], [contractionary monetary policy with
    contractionary fiscal policy] (to try to keep inflation rates low).

45. Money supply accounting problem. (Excess reserves, deposits, etc.)

46. Up/Down arrow type questions that deal with aggregate supply and
    demand or policy. (Considering wealth effect, income effect, and
    exchange rates effects on consumption, aggregate demand, prices,
    interest rates and other aspects)

47. Same as 46.

48. Understanding gov’t and tax multipliers.

49. Same as 46. (gov’t spending & tax cuts)

50. Same as 46. (price and aggregate demand SHAN’T go in same direction)

Short-answer Questions

51. One of them is about the Solow growth model

52. A bunch of calculations

Need to knows

-   Need to know how to calculate unemployment

-   How to calculate participation rate

-   Equation for cyclical rate of unemployment: Cyclical =
    Unemployment - Natural

-   National savings equation

-   Fisher equation: 1 + i = (1 + r) * (1 + π^(e)) ~~~ i = r + π^(e)
    ----(day 15 recitation 3.3)

-   How to set up arrows in two-period consumer model (Change in current
    income, change in future income, change in interest rate)

    -   Substitution and wealth effect, depends on net debtor or net
        saver

-   Put a graph together for savings and investment in an open economy

-   Relationship between savings and investment and relationship between
    Autarky interest rate and world interest rate.

-   Solow Growth Model: ”Info from recitation 3, (problem #5) will be on
    the exam.” He gives all the equations and explains what they are,
    you just have to be comfortable enough to understand. Need to be
    able to answer 3 questions: Economic growth in the short and long
    run (in long run, hits steady state and growth goes down to zero),
    and what happens to consumption in the steady state. (growth is 0
    eventually at s.s.)

-   If steady state goes down, you have negative growth in short run

-   Consumption is positively correlated to total factor productivity

-   If population growth or depreciation rate go up consumption goes
    down.

-   Do calculations for solow growth model and solve for steady state
    capital to labor ratio.

-   What’s the most important factor, unbounded as far as continued
    economic growth (=technology)

-   We need to know the value of employment, the value of unemployment
    and the reservation wage when the different variables change in the
    Search and Matching model

-   Policy chapter: Connected to question 37. Understanding what each
    side believed and proposed.

-   Money: Wealth effect, interest rate effect, exchange rate effect.

-   TIP: Do not pick an answer with price and aggregate demand both
    going in the same direction

-   Question 46-ish:
    [][]

Recommendation for Studying

Study mostly recitations and Extra Credit Questions

[]


Current Options

-   Market Leader

-   News

-   Intro by another connection

-   Intro by another entrepreneur

-   Web search Online research

-   Visit to ecosystem

-   Due diligence of another company

-   Relationship with entrepreneur

-   Relationship with ecosystem

-   Cold e-mail

-   Linkedin

-   Inbound web notification

-   Intro by another investor

-   Demo day/Event

-   Procore App Marketplace

-   Pitchbook

-   Suffolk Applicant Pool

-   Portfolio Companies

-   Warm Intro

-   Due Diligence Competitors

-   Competitor Landscape

-   Crunchbase

-   AngelList

-   Portfolio Browsing

-   Relationship with Accelerator

-   Intro by Limited Partner (LP)

-   Campus Associate

-   Interviewee Process

-   Thesis Research

-   Relationship with service provider

-   Personal relationship

-   Blog

-   Database

-   Non-dilutive grants

-   Deep Dive

-   Conference

-   Sourcing Infrastructure

 

New Options

-   News (eg. Blog, LinkedIn)

    -   Blog

    -   LinkedIn

    -   Article

-   Introduction by Connection (eg. LP, Investor, Friend)

    -   Limited Partner

    -   Investor

    -   Campus Associate

    -   Another entrepreneur

    -   Founder

    -   Friend

    -   Service provider

    -   Ecosystem/Accelerator/Incubator

        -   Visit

        -   Call

        -   Demo Day/Event

-   Competitive Analysis from Another Company

-   Research Tools Category Browsing (eg. PitchBook, AngelList)

    -   Pitchbook

    -   AngelList

    -   Crunchbase

    -   Tracxn

-   Investor Portfolio & Marketplace (eg. Brick & Mortar, Procore)

-   Thesis Research

-   Conference

-   Other (specify in details)

New Reason For Passing Options

Should be “multiple select”

-   No Interest (e.g., no spike on any factors)

    -   Not interesting enough

-   Pain Point & Value Proposition (e.g., nice-to-have)

    -   Doubt on value proposition

-   Product (e.g., too early product, bad UX, lacking key features)

    -   The product is bad and they don’t have any good CONTINUE

    -   Tech is too early

-   Market Size & Growth (e.g., too small)

    -   Market size

    -   Exit strategy

-   Team (e.g., lacking founder, wrong founder-problem fit)

    -   Not the best team and visionary founder

    -   Reservation on team

-   Competition (e.g., differentiation, defensibility, competitive to
    portfolio)

    -   Not enough defensibility

    -   No proprietary tech

    -   Not enough differentiation

    -   No tech defensibility

    -   Competitive to portfolio company

-   Growth & Traction (e.g., too slow, not enough)

    -   Very slow progress

    -   Missing traction

-   Unit Economics (e.g., Margins, CAC/LTV ratio)

    -   Gross margins

-   Deal Dynamics (e.g., price, ownership, structure, instrument)

    -   Overvalued and could’t develop dedication under… CONTINUE

    -   Overvalued

    -   Tokenized equity

    -   No path to ownership

    -   Deal dynamics

-   Go-to-market Strategy (e.g., not scalable, too difficult)

    -   Lacked viable go-to-market strategy

    -   Business model not scalable

    -   Go-to-market is too difficult

-   Outside of Fund Focus (e.g., business model, industry, company
    maturity, acquired, location)

    -   Nonprofit

    -   B2C

    -   Consumer

    -   Doesn’t fit ESX thesis - Loosely related to construction
        CONTINUE

    -   Outside of thesis

    -   Have already been acquired

    -   Already acquired

    -   Acquired already

    -   Have already been acquired and are not as good as CONTINUE

    -   Too early stage

    -   Too late for investment

    -   Location

-   Other

Old Reason For Passing Options

-   Have already been acquired

-   Not enough defensibility

-   Not interesting enough

-   Not looking for funding

-   Overvalued and could’t develop dedicated under… CONTINUE

-   Overvalued

-   Could not find contact info

-   Very slow progress

-   Doesn’t fit ESX thesis - Loosely related to construction CONTINUE

-   Already acquired

-   The product is bad and they don’t have any good CONTINUE

-   Have already been acquired and are not as good as CONTINUE

-   Lacked viable go-to-market strategy

-   Acquired already

-   Too early stage

-   Not the best team and visionary founder

-   Gross margins

-   Nonprofit

-   Location

-   No information

-   Tokenized equity

-   Consumer

-   Competitive to portfolio company

-   Missing traction

-   No path to ownership

-   B2C

-   Not enough differentiation

-   Exit strategy

-   Outside of thesis

-   No reply

-   Doubt on value proposition

-   Business model not scalable

-   Go-to-market is too difficult

-   Deal dynamics

-   Tech is too early

-   No proprietary tech

-   Too late for investment

-   Market size

-   No tech defensibility

-   Reservation on team


Akerman, Mijal¹; Arango, Iñaki²; Arbeli, Hadas¹; Carciente, Yael³;
Feres, María Sol²

Colombo Hebreo¹, ORT Argentina², IBN Gabirol³

ORT Escuela de verano

Gamboa, Panamá

2019

Abstract

Vines occupy a significant percentage of the total species of plants
within tropical forests. This percentage ranges from 10% to 40%
depending on the forest. They respond to the different changes across
their ecosystem and change in order to survive, grow and reproduce. Some
examples that illustrate these changes in the ecosystem are the rise of
CO2 in the air and deforestation.
We intend to explain if there exists a relation between sunlight
availability (of a tree), the distance from which a tree is from the
border of the woods and the veins that grow upon tide trees.
Also, we did field work in different parts of the forest (3 from the old
part and 3 in the newest) for this we measured the distance between the
trees that were previously selected, circumference and height of the
trees, circumference and quantity of the veins in each tree. And lastly,
we measured the luminosity of each tree.
As a result, we obtained a proportional relation between the diameter of
the veins and the luminosity they received, this happening in the newest
sector of the forest. Meanwhile, we found no relation regarding to the
oldest part of the forest. The first could happen because veins require
luminosity in order to survive, and that’s why they tend to stretch out

Resumen 

Las lianas ocupan un porcentaje significativo desde el 10% a 40%
dependiendo del bosque. Algunos ejemplos que ilustran estos cambios en
el ambiente son el aumento de los niveles de CO2 en el aire y la
deforestación.

La intención es explicar si existe una relación entre la luz disponible
de un árbol, su distancia desde el borde del bosque y las lianas que
crecen en esos árboles.

Realizamos investigaciones de campo en ciertos transectos (tres
pertenecientes al sector viejo y otros tres, al nuevo) recurriendo a la
medición de la distancia entre los árboles previamente seleccionados,
circunferencia y altura, y el diámetro y cantidad de lianas en dicho
árbol. Por último, tomamos la luminosidad presente en cada árbol.

Como resultados, obtuvimos una relación proporcional entre el diámetro
de las lianas y la cantidad de luz que recibían en el sector nuevo,
mientras que en el viejo no hallamos relación alguna. Lo primero puede
deberse a que las lianas requieren luminosidad para sobrevivir, por lo
que tienden a alargarse.

Palabras claves

Luminosidad, Relación liana-árbol, Efecto borde, Fototropismo positivo, Liana, Bosque tropical y Calentamiento global.

Introducción

El término “Lianas” proviene del francés liane, que es el nombre que le
fue dado a estas plantas por primera vez en las Antillas. Son plantas
que germinan del suelo, requiriendo de un árbol o sostén con el fin de
mantenerse en pie. Tienden a reproducirse rápidamente, razón por la cual
ocupan gran parte de la biomasa vegetal de las selvas húmedas y
tropicales (Pérez et al.). Tienen fototropismo positivo e intentan hacer
todo lo posible por estar a la luz (Bendezú, 2012). Las Lianas poseen
una adaptación que les permite enredarse en los árboles con el fin de
realizar una fotosíntesis eficaz (Pérez; Schnitzer; Aguilar; Daguerre;
Hernández, 2015). A su vez, algunas especies de Lianas poseen zarcillas,
espinas y pelos para enredarse más fácilmente en los árboles, lo cual
también les permite absorber nutrientes.

También se ha observado que debido a la actividad industrial y el
calentamiento global, se ha incrementado la cantidad de dióxido de
carbono hallado en el medioambiente. Las lianas tienden a beneficiarse
de dicho acontecimiento pues son capaces de absorber la mayor cantidad
de dióxido de carbono, evitando que los árboles puedan realizar dicha
acción. (Comunicación personal Rodolfo Flores, 2019) (Redacción Planeta,
2014). De hecho, al encontrarse expuestas al sol, tienden a ser de mayor
longitud. En el borde del bosque, resultan ser más gruesas pues el grado
de luminosidad es teóricamente mayor que dentro de él. Sin embargo, los
claros promueven el crecimiento de las mismas de manera acelerada y
magnificada. (Butler, 2009)

Ahora bien, ¿cuál es la influencia que tiene el efecto borde sobre la
presencia de Lianas y cómo la luminosidad altera su crecimiento?

El objetivo de nuestra investigación fue establecer una relación entre
el crecimiento de las lianas (tanto en su grosor como en su altura y en
su cantidad) y la distancia en la cual se encuentran dentro del bosque
en relación al borde. Además de analizar cuáles son los factores claves
en el desarrollo morfológico de estas plantas respecto a la luminosidad.

Metodología

Ubicación

El experimento tomó lugar específicamente en el Camino del Oleoducto (9°
07' 09.0" N, 79° 42' 51.8" W) (imagen 1). Dicho camino se halla dentro
del Parque Nacional Soberanía de Panamá (imagen 2). Se extiende por el
este del Canal de Panamá y forma parte de su cuenca hidrográfica. Este
parque posee un área total de 22 mil hectáreas y es protegido por el
Ministerio de Ambiente de Panamá. Es poseedor de un área total de 220
km² y todas ellas protegidas por el Ministerio de Ambiente de Panamá.

El bosque en el cual realizamos la investigación es un Bosque Húmedo
Tropical según Holdridge (1967). “En el área del canal no existe un
límite marcado entre bosque seco, y el bosque muy húmedo. Tiene un
puesto promedio entre el fuerte gradiente de precipitación que existe
entre el Pacífico y el Caribe (2400 mm – 2800 mm). La estación seca se
extiende por 3-4 meses (diciembre-mayo). En cuanto a la diversidad de
árboles, una hectárea de bosque húmedo tiene un promedio de 424 árboles
con un mínimo de 10 cm de diámetro. En el misma área hay en promedio 91
especies de árboles. La diversidad es mayor en comparación al bosque
seco, pero menor que el bosque muy húmedo. Unos ejemplos de los árboles
predominantes son: espavé, bongo, roble, higueron…” (Pérez, 2008).

Asimismo, existen diversas clasificaciones de lianas: las pteridófitas,
gimnospermas y las angiospermas. Entre las dicotiledóneas se hallan
ejemplos en Bignoniaceae, Vitaceae (emparentado con la uva), Leguminosa
(por ej: Mucuna), Menispermaceae y Hippocrateaceae. (Wikipedia, 2019)

Materiales

Los materiales que utilizamos (imagen 3) para la realización del
experimento fueron los siguientes:

-   Cinta de medición (de 15 metros).

-   Cinta de plástico de color anaranjado.

-   Anotador.

-   Bolígrafo.

-   Cámara de fotos o celular.

-   Indicador de luminosidad (descargarnos la aplicación “Sensor Box”,
    la cual nos indicaba la luminosidad que un árbol recibía un árbol en
    luxes).

Método

Trabajamos en dos sectores del bosque: el sector viejo (o antiguo) y el
sector más reciente (o nuevo). He aquí los siguientes pasos:

En cada sector del bosque, establecimos tres transectos de 10 m de
lngitud desde el borde (en la carretera) a bosque adentro. Teniendo en
cuenta los distintos factores ambientales (suelo, cantidad de árboles y
topografía del terreno) y considerando que los árboles tenían
suficientes lianas. Medimos la distancia desde el borde hasta el primer
árbol. Además, lo marcamos con el fin de identificarlo a futuro.

Calculamos la circunferencia del árbol poseedor de lianas, la
circunferencia de lianas (de 3 a 7 lianas por árbol dependiendo de la
disponibilidad), estimamos la altura del árbol, y la cantidad total de
lianas. Para este tercer paso, decidimos tomar en cuenta las lianas que
germinaban del suelo y no las aéreas para disminuir el error de duplicar
el conteo. Por otra parte, establecimos un rango de 0,5 metros a 3,5
metros (aproximadamente) para la circunferencia de los árboles en
cuestión. Repetimos el procedimiento para obtener un total de 6 árboles
en cada línea. La distancia que tomamos como máxima entre dos árboles
fue de 5 metros. Analizamos la intensidad de la luz en los distintos
árboles con ayuda de la aplicación previamente mencionada en los
materiales. Este paso lo realizamos a lo último de cada línea con el fin
de obtener la luminosidad en un determinado momento del día igual para
todos los árboles en esa línea.

Realizamos todos estos pasos a lo largo de los siguientes días:

1.  6 de febrero del 2019 → Por la mañana, 8:30 am (línea 1 - Bosque
    nuevo). Por la tarde, 16:00 pm (línea 2 - Bosque nuevo).

2.  7 de febrero del 2019 → Por la mañana, 9:00 am (línea 1 - Bosque
    viejo). Por la tarde, 16:00 pm (línea 2 - Bosque viejo).

3.  10 de febrero del 2019 → Por la mañana, 9:05 am (línea 3 - Bosque
    nuevo y línea 3 - Bosque viejo).

Sin embargo, mientras seguíamos los pasos, notamos que no era posible
encontrar un árbol exactamente cada 5 metros que cumpliese con nuestro
requisitos sobre su circunferencia. Por esta razón, consideramos para
medirlos árboles más cercanos a los puntos originales.

Resultados

Los resultados de nuestras observaciones muestran que el sector nuevo al
tener un claro (y por ende mayor luminosidad), presentaban diversas
lianas y poseían un mayor grosor (promedio nuevo ≃ 11.36 cm). A su vez,
las que no estaban expuestas a la luz eran más delgadas (promedio viejo
≃ 4.79 cm).

Los árboles del sector viejo, por otra parte, poseían en promedio una
circunferencia menor a la de los del sector joven. Estos resultados se
resumen en la tabla 1, Anexos.

En la gráfica 1 y 2 el eje horizontal representa la luminosidad en luxes
y el vertical la circunferencia de las lianas en centímetros .

En el bosque joven, resultó tener un crecimiento exponencial (gráfica
1). Realizamos regresión con varios tipos de función y la que tuvo la
menor pérdida fue la función exponencial, que establece una relación
positiva entre la cantidad de luz y la circunferencia de las lianas. Sin
embargo, en el viejo, la distribución parece aleatoria, sin ningún tipo
de patrón (gráfica 2). Realizamos el mismo tipo de regresión y el tipo
de función que menos pérdida tenía fue la exponencial, pero la razón por
la que descartamos fue porque establecía una relación inversamente
proporcional, lo que va en contra de la teoría y de la gráfica anterior.

No encontramos ningún patrón entre la distancia desde el borde y la
cantidad de lianas (gráfico 3). Consecuentemente tampoco encontramos un
patrón entre la cantidad de luz la distancia desde el borde del bosque
(gráfica 4).

Encontramos también una relación entre la circunferencia del árbol y la
altura vertical del mismo (gráfica 5). Como las relaciones previamente
encontradas, pueden ser modeladas por una función exponencial.

Discusiones

Al comenzar a interpretar nuestros resultados, en el sector nuevo, nos
fue posible deducir que sí existe una relación directamente proporcional
entre la cantidad de luz a la que un árbol se encuentra expuesto, con la
circunferencia de las lianas que este mismo alberga. Esto confirma parte
de nuestra hipótesis donde expresamos que gracias a que la luminosidad
es un factor fundamental en el crecimiento de las lianas, tienden a
alcanzar dicha luz. Los claros entonces, reflejarán que en ellos, las
lianas poseen un mayor grosor y altura. Dado esto, compiten con los
árboles por obtención de nutrientes y luz. La cantidad de lianas en
sectores más claros será mayor que en sectores oscuros pues es aquí
donde ellas mejor se desarrollan.

Ahora bien, en el sector viejo, no nos fue posible hallar dicha
correlación. Creemos que esto se pudo deber a que al ser un bosque
viejo, tuvo tiempo de que se generasen irregularidades en su
crecimiento. Esto se respalda con que en el bosque viejo habrían árboles
de todas las edades. Observamos árboles entremezclados aleatoriamente de
diferentes edades y tamaños. A su vez todo bosque antiguo tiene tanto
árboles en pie como caídos, y este resulta ser un buen indicador del
tipo de bosque (Estallo, 2014).

Asimismo, no conocemos con completa certeza cuáles son las áreas que
componen exactamente el bosque viejo o el nuevo. No obstante, nos
guiamos por la presencia de palmeras. Caminando hacia el norte en el
Camino del Oleoducto, supimos que nos estábamos dirigiendo hacia lo que
aparentaba ser el sector viejo, pero no había prueba alguna de ello.

Comentando acerca de la distancia desde el borde, refutamos también
nuestro pensamiento acerca de que la misma era determinante del el
crecimiento de las lianas, ya que las gráficas demuestran que no hay
aparente relación entre dichas variables. No necesariamente, a mayor
distancia hay menor luz, pues los claros conforman un factor
independiente, imposible de controlar. Esto último se puede observar en
la gráfica 4.

Por último, hallamos una relación no prevista entre el diámetro del
árbol con la altura del mismo. Entonces, al poseer mayor altura su
circunferencia aumentaba, tal vez esto es así pues deben contar con una
mayor base para sostenerse (y con ello a las lianas).

Recomendaciones

En primera instancia, reconocemos que el ámbito de trabajo debe contar
con suficientes árboles y lianas como para poder muestrear y obtener
conclusiones coherentes. A su vez, se sugiere en lo posible hacer uso de
un rango determinado de la circunferencia del árbol con el objetivo de
descartar datos. Preferentemente, recurrir a una misma especie de
árboles ya que no todos los árboles responden de la misma manera ante
las lianas ni ante su crecimiento. De esta manera, evitamos una
alteración no prevista en los resultados.

Sería ideal conocer la edad exacta del bosque, con el fin de tener
certeza de que las muestras posean mayores condiciones similares entre
ellas.

A su vez, contar con la aplicación de luminosidad “Sensor Box” permite
poder calcular la luminosidad del lugar en el cual se desea
experimentar, pues muchas otras aplicaciones no cuentan con los mismos
beneficios que esta última.

Asimismo, con el objetivo de ahorrar tiempo y agilizar el trabajo,
sugerimos escribir todos los datos en un anotador para mantener una
correcta organización en el momento de la investigación.

Por último, para resultados con mayor precisión es indispensable
aumentar la cantidad muestras de estudio, ya sea de líneas o árboles
medidos, con mejores equipos de medición y experimentar, además,
experimentar con distintas metodologías. Es decir, utilizar zonas
segmentadas en sectores con árboles y no necesariamente líneas. También
podría impactar el resultado del experimento que se utilizasen los
bordes naturales del bosque en vez de los bordes artificiales, como lo
son los caminos que lo atraviesan.

Conclusiones

Nuestros resultados nos llevan a concluir:

-   No hay correlación entre la cantidad de luz y la distancia de un
    punto del borde del bosque.

-   Es importante remarcar que la distancia no determina la cantidad de
    lianas o su tamaño, pues la luminosidad es el factor determinante.

-   A mayor luz, más gruesas son éstas. Por ende, el efecto borde no
    altera el crecimiento de las mismas.

-   La edad del bosque también incide, pues el crecimiento irregular de
    la vegetación en los bosques viejos influye directamente en la
    luminosidad y posterior desarrollo de dichas plantas.

Agradecimientos

En primer lugar, nos gustaría agradecer a la organización ORT Mundial
por darnos la oportunidad de venir a Panamá para aprender sobre la
maravillosa fauna y flora de los bosques aquí, además de conocer a
alumnos de otros países y la Ciudad de Panamá. ORT Mundial también nos
ha enseñado a realizar una investigación correctamente y de manera
efectiva, así como a debatir sobre problemas mundiales de hoy en día,
como el calentamiento global y trabajar en equipo.

En segundo lugar, agradecemos a Amelie por escogernos para participar en
este viaje y guiarnos durante los primeros días, pero sobretodo por
acogernos y hacernos sentir como si estuviéramos en casa desde un primer
momento.

Asimismo, apreciamos a Guido, Chelina y Ana, nuestros guías en la
duración del viaje, por ayudarnos en todos los momentos en los que
teníamos cualquier dificultad o duda, organizar salidas a los
alrededores y al centro de Panamá y planear charlas interesantes sobre
la ecología mundial. Esto nos fue de gran relevancia para comenzar a
concienciarnos acerca del cambio climático y las problemáticas que
actualmente vivimos.

Los profesores, Noelia de Argentina, José Ángel de Panamá y Luis de
México también nos han ayudado enormemente, desde investigar la fauna y
flora en el bosque, hasta analizar los datos que recogimos.

Le damos las gracias a Abdiel, quien nos permitió estar en un ambiente
seguro en el albergue y cuando salimos al bosque o a la ciudad y a
Amabelis, por acompañarnos a todos los sitios a los que vamos, para
ayudarnos si alguien sufre un accidente o herida. A Moisés, que nos
llevó a las zonas en las que teníamos que realizar nuestras
investigaciones. Por último, nos gustaría dar las gracias a las
cocineras que trabajan todo el día y nos proveen la comida diariamente.

Agradecemos a Tom, nuestro acompañante profesional de Nueva Orleans,
quien contribuyó en diversas ocasiones a entender diferentes conceptos,
además de guiarnos por el camino del Oleoducto.

Finalmente, Rodolfo Flores nos ha motivado en la temática “lianas” pues
a partir de sus explicaciones y comentarios acerca de la relación entre
ellas y el calentamiento global, decidimos abordar el tema.

Anexos

Imágenes

1.  []

  [Imagen de Google Maps] (Panamá, 2019).

  Ubicación del Camino del Oleoducto.

2.  []

  [Imagen de Wikipedia] (Panamá, 2009).

  Localización del Parque Nacional Soberanía, en Panamá.

3.  []

  [Imagen de María Sol Feres] (Panamá, 2019) Materiales utilizados en el
  trabajo.

Tablas

-   Línea 1, sector nuevo = 8:30 am

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Distancia   Circunferencia   Alto del   Circunferencia   Cantidad   Cantidad   Promedio
  (m)         de las lianas    árbol (m)  del árbol (m)    de lianas  de luz     Circunf.
              (cm)                                         por árbol  (Luxes)    Lianas (m)
  ----------- ---------------- ---------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  2.75        7, 8.8, 9.3,     16.5       1.01             15         900        11.25
              19.9                                                               

  4.8         22, 16, 8, 10,   9.675      0.66             5          835        13.6
              12                                                                 

  10.05       6, 10, 8, 8.7    7.7        0.70             4          330        8.175

  13.8        16, 22, 10.01,   16.08      2.70             20         1000       15.002
              18, 9                                                              

  20.2        9, 24, 7.5, 4    10.38      0.76             5          245        11.125

  24.5        25, 10, 14, 16,  14.7       3.23             17         760        13.9
              4.5                                                                
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Linea 2, sector nuevo = 16:00 pm

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Di      | Circunf | Alto    | Circunf | C       | C       | P       |
| stancia | erencia | del     | erencia | antidad | antidad | romedio |
| (m)     | de las  | árbol   | del     | de      | de luz  | C       |
|         | lianas  | (m)     | árbol   | lianas  | (Luxes) | ircunf. |
|         | (cm)    |         | (m)     | por     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | árbol   |         | Lianas  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | (m)     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 0       | 8, 8,   | 12.98   | 0.98    | 4       | 1000    | 13.25   |
|         | 30, 7   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4.70    | 19, 9,  | 12.11   | 1.21    | 4       | 820     | 12.05   |
|         | 9, 11.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.60   | 11.2,   | 13.84   | 1.13    | 5       | 400     | 14.975  |
|         | 14,     |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 10.3,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 24.4    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 16      | 18, 20, | 6.92    | 0.62    | 3       | 880     | 17.33   |
|         | 15.2    |         |         |         | (claro) |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 21      | 12, 10, | 15.57   | 4.3     | 7       | 320     | 6.5     |
|         | 2, 2    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 27      | 2, 4,   | 10.38   | 1.25    | 7       | 200     | 2.375   |
|         | 2, 1.5  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

-   Línea 3, sector nuevo = 9:05 am

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Di      | Circunf | Alto    | Circunf | C       | C       | P       |
| stancia | erencia | del     | erencia | antidad | antidad | romedio |
| (m)     | de las  | árbol   | del     | de      | de luz  | C       |
|         | lianas  | (m)     | árbol   | lianas  | (Luxes) | ircunf. |
|         | (cm)    |         | (m)     | por     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | árbol   |         | Lianas  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | (m)     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 1.90    | 14, 13, | 8.91    | 1.10    | 8       | 1220    | 10.5    |
|         | 8, 7    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 6.66    | 13, 10, | 13.84   | 1.31    | 4       | 910     | 8.875   |
|         | 11, 1.5 |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11.2    | 0.5,    | 7.8     | 0.80    | 5       | 400     | 5.625   |
|         | 17, 3,  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 2       |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 15      | 14, 22, | 12.11   | 1.39    | 9       | 460     | 12      |
|         | 18, 4,  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 2       |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 18.40   | 15, 9,  | 11.24   | 1.70    | 8       | 511     | 10.5    |
|         | 8, 10   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 23.59   | 1.5,    | 9.24    | 0.70    | 4       | 600     | 11.125  |
|         | 21, 13, |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 9       |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

-   Línea 1, sector viejo = 9 am

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Di      | Circunf | Alto    | Circunf | C       | C       | P       |
| stancia | erencia | del     | erencia | antidad | antidad | romedio |
| (m)     | de las  | árbol   | del     | de      | de luz  | C       |
|         | lianas  | (m)     | árbol   | lianas  | (Luxes) | ircunf. |
|         | (cm)    |         | (m)     | por     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | árbol   |         | Lianas  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | (m)     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 3       | 17.3,   | 10,38   | 1.60    | 4       | 1500    | 18.3    |
|         | 27, 18, |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 10.9    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 6.20    | 3, 8,   | 12.975  | 1.75    | 5       | 1800    | 5.25    |
|         | 6, 4    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.80    | 2, 2,   | 13.6    | 1.71    | 18      | 2000    | 2.2     |
|         | 5, 1, 1 |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 14.2    | 1, 1,   | 16.435  | 2.6     | 40      | 2900    | 1.5     |
|         | 1, 3    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 19.70   | 5, 9,   | 12.11   | 2.26    | 60      | 3000    | 8       |
|         | 23, 1,  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 2       |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 25.90   | 1.5,    | 13.6    | 1.60    | 70      | 900     | 0.7     |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5     |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

-   Línea 2, sector viejo = 16:00

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Di      | Circunf | Alto    | Circunf | C       | Lumi    | P       |
| stancia | erencia | del     | erencia | antidad | nosidad | romedio |
| (m)     | de las  | árbol   | del     | de      | (Luxes) | C       |
|         | lianas  | (m)     | árbol   | lianas  |         | ircunf. |
|         | (cm)    |         | (m)     | por     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | árbol   |         | Lianas  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | (m)     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 4       | 1, 6,   | 12.32   | 1.60    | 8       | 650     | 2.125   |
|         | 1, 0.5  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.30    | 12, 2,  | 9.72    | 0.88    | 4       | 540     | 5.875   |
|         | 9, 0.5  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10      | 17, 15, | 8.50    | 0.70    | 9       | 330     | 12.5    |
|         | 8, 10   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 17.5    | 20, 13, | 6.16    | 0.50    | 11      | 100     | 15.75   |
|         | 20, 10  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 20.3    | 13.5,   | 6.93    | 0.60    | 9       | 800     | 7.9     |
|         | 2,      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 12.5,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 9.5, 2  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 23.3    | 12, 9,  | 6.93    | 0.45    | 10      | 150     | 12      |
|         | 16, 11  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

-   Línea 3, sector viejo = 9:05 am

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Di      | Circunf | Alto de | Circunf | C       | Lumi    | P       |
| stancia | erencia | árbol   | erencia | antidad | nosidad | romedio |
| (m)     | de las  | (m)     | del     | de      | (Luxes) | C       |
|         | lianas  |         | árbol   | lianas  |         | ircunf. |
|         | (cm)    |         | (m)     | por     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | árbol   |         | Lianas  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | (m)     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 2.30    | 2, 3,   | 9.35    | 0.76    | 18      | 450     | 1.583   |
|         | 3, 0.5, |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5     |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 5.5     | 6, 4,   | 9.35    | 0.90    | 30      | 250     | 3.6     |
|         | 4, 2, 2 |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.7    | 3, 2,   | 7.65    | 0.61    | 17      | 400     | 15.5    |
|         | 2, 3,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 3, 2,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5     |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 17.7    | 7, 4,   | 8.5     | 0.75    | 9       | 1100    | 2.38    |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5, 3  |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 22.1    | 0.5,    | 6.8     | 0.40    | 25      | 900     | 1.318   |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5,    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5, 1, |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 1, 1,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 1, 2,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 2, 2,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 2, 3,   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 3, 3, 3 |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Gráficas

1. Promedio de la circunferencia de las lianas en función de la luz
(bosque joven).

[]

2. Promedio de circunferencia de las lianas en función de la cantidad de
luz (bosque viejo).

[]

3. Cantidad de lianas en función de la distancia desde el borde. []

4. Distancia desde el borde en función de la cantidad de luz.

[]

5. Altura del árbol en función de su circunferencia.

[]

Referencias

-   Cruz, D. 2009. Las trepadoras con Zarcillos. Ecured.

-   Carnegie institution. 2010. Carbon dioxide’s effects on plants
    increase global warming. ScienceDaily.

-   Dewalt, S; Schitze, S; Denslow, J. 2000. Density and diversity of
    lianas along a chronosequence in a central Panamanian lowland
    forest. Journal of tropical ecology 16: 1-19.

-   Holdridge, L.R. Life zone ecology 1967 No (Rev.ed.) pp. 206 pp. Ref.
    94 refs

-   Geiling, N. 2015. High Carbon levels can make it harder for plants
    to grow. Think progress.

-   Pérez, R; Schnitzer, S; Aguilar, S; Daguerre, N. Hernández, A. 2015.
    Lianas y enredaderas de la isla Barro Colorado, Panamá.Instituto
    smithsonian de investigaciones tropicales, Ciudad de Panamá, 272 p.

-   Pérez, R. 2008. Árboles de los bosques del Canal de Panamá,
    Instituto smithsonian de investigaciones tropicales, Ciudad de
    Panamá, 463 p.

-   Butler, R. 2009. Enredaderas y lianas. Tomado de:
    https://global.mongabay.com/es/rainforests/0406.htm

-   Redacción Planeta. 2014. Enredaderas obstaculizan la captura de CO2
    de los bosques. Tomado de “La estrella de Panamá”.

-   Estallo, O. 2014. Blog Holartica. Sobre bosques viejos. Desde
    blogger.


El viaje de Said

Podes ver el video en https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7z1xF6N6538

1.  ¿Qué sueña Said? ¿Con qué prácticas vincula el hecho de estar en
    otro lugar?

2.  ¿Qué contraste se le presenta a Said entre su ilusión y las
    situaciones que vive en calidad de extranjero?

  D

3.  ¿Qué son las “pateras” y por qué aparecen reiteradamente en el film?
    ¿Qué representan éstas para la película?

  D

4.  Lee las siguientes notas
    https://www.clarin.com/mundo/chico-sirio-muerto-conmociona-mundo_0_H1le4iQtvQe.html

  http://internacional.elpais.com/internacional/2016/04/20/actualidad/1461160235_030795.html

  Elige 5 comentarios de los lectores que representen diferentes
  opiniones en torno al tema y realiza tu propio comentario personal.

  D

5.  ¿Qué opinas acerca de las situaciones que atraviesa Said en el
    “parque de diversiones”? ¿Qué relación podes establecer entre esas
    situaciones y los derechos humanos de los migrantes?

  D

Hiyab

Podes ver el video en https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPj7kSJhe88

1.  ¿Por qué Fátima es “una otredad”? ¿Respecto de quién? Vincula tu
    respuesta con la afirmación del profesor que dice “Esta es Fátima.
    Es nueva y quiero que la tratéis como a una más de la clase”.

  D

2.  ¿En qué difieren los rostros de cada uno de los jóvenes que aparecen
    en el film? ¿Por qué la directora se detiene en Fátima?

  D

3.  Analizar, a la luz de la película que significan las siguientes dos
    afirmaciones de la directora:

    a.  “Esta es una escuela laica, y todos somos iguales. No queremos
        diferencias entre los alumnos (...) Aquí no discriminamos a
        nadie” y

  D

b.  “¿No querrás ser la rara de la clase, no?”.

  D

4.  La directora le pregunta a Fátima, “¿Tú te imaginas que pasaría si a
    cada uno se le ocurriera venir vestido de su religión?”. ¿Podrías
    responder esa pregunta y justificar tu respuesta?

  D

5.  Analiza la siguiente afirmación: recién cuando se quita el Hiyab
    Fátima puede pasar la frontera (la puerta de ingreso al aula).

  D

6.  Lee la siguiente nota y expresa tu opinión personal

  http://www.elperiodico.com/es/internacional/20170314/la-prohibicion-del-hiyab-en-europa-5896695

  D


Good afternoon everyone. I am here to tell you about Pölh. But before
telling you what we do, why don’t I tell you about the problem we are
solving.

Problem (problem focused)

You'd be surprised to know that here in Argentina have s team of people
dedicated to verify all the requests they receive for reimbursements?

This is because of many reasons, one being that they have to make sure
that the documents were written by a registered doctor.

Let’s give another example. When I apply for a job, I tell them I
graduated from ORT, and they have to call the school to make sure what
I’m saying is right.

What’s the root cause of these problems? The lack of trust in the
system.

Solution

Now… what if I told you there is a secure, industry independent way of
handling documents and files.

We present to you, Pölh.

We are an online platform that helps businesses, institutions and
governments to store, share, and retrieve files a tamper proof and
reliable way, powered by blockchain.

We also facilitate the automation of important processes with an easy to
use API, so that other services can be built on top of our platform.

Why are we better?

All this is really amazing and all. But what separates us from other
companies which are attempting to provide similar services?

The answer is easy. There is no other company that provides these
services in an integrated, easy to use and both manual and automated
way.

Market and Monetization

We are a B2B solution with a Pay Per Use model.

When an institution signs up for our service, we charge them a small
initiation fee.

After this, we charge them per document issued.

Team

Dylan Szejnblum (Co-Founder)

Technical Lead

Iñaki Arango (Co-Founder)

Project Manager & Frontend Developer

Tomás Rabin

Lead Designer

Idan Mizrahi

Frontend Developer

Ralph Sarkissian

Full Stack Developer

Future

We want to transform ourselves in the go-to platform for institutions to
handle sensitive data and become a trusted and recognizable brand.


  Core values:

-   empatía

-   perseverancia

-   iniciativa

-   creatividad

  Bullet points:

-   Notar una gran desigualdad educativa en el país. Y hacer algo por
    eso.

-   Tengo conocimientos sobre programación, los tengo que aprovechar.

-   Siendo un privilegiado ayudar a los demás.

-   Si no lo hacemos nosotros no lo va a hacer nadie.

1.  Notar problema

2.  Encontrar solución

3.  Desarrollar solución

4.  Encontrar problemas al implementar solución

5.  Conseguir inversión

6.  Lo usan colegios publicos

7.  Darme cuenta que quiero esto para mi vida.

Have you ever been in a situation in which someone is feeling awful and
no one does anything? Well, I was there and I felt such impotence that I
decided to do something.

Usually after school, I come back home and watch the news, especially
that on current affairs and politics. One day, I saw a report that
shocked me: 6 out of 10 kids in Argentina dropout of high school and
only 10% of schools use technology for administration purposes. I could
not believe it. How was it possible that in the twenty-first century
there were kids in my country with no access to modern educational
tools?

In my country our generation lives in two parallel worlds. In the first,
which occurs outside school, we have a mobile application for every part
of our lives. We have Instagram and Facebook to socialize, Spotify to
listen to music, Airbnb to rent an apartment, and Uber to travel. In the
second one, which comes to life at school, technology is widely
underutilized. Why does it matter sentence here. I had found a
significant flaw in the Argentine education system, but I had to do the
difficult work of transforming an idea into a feasible digital product
and solution.

I believed that as a programmer, I was capable of creating something to
bridge the gap between these two worlds. I felt privileged to attend a
modern high school like ORT, where students like me are encouraged to
leverage technology and innovate solutions that help society. As a
result, I embarked on a social-impact venture called Identitic, with the
main goal of digitalizing the administrative functions that nowadays are
mostly paperwork in Argentine schools.

Every week after class I went to a different public school to interview
faculty, including headmasters, on the problems they had experienced. In
most cases I ended up talking to professors, which was the key: their
experience inspired me to embark on an edtech venture. With time,
teachers revealed knowledge that would prove fundamental for the
development of Identitic, not only concerning education but also
familial situations outside of school.

The most impactful story I encountered was that of Roberto, an English
teacher from a Nuñez public high school. He explained to me that after
getting to school, students had to call their parents to let them know
they had arrived. Due to the level of insecurity in Argentina, parents
were scared that something would happen to their kids on their way to
school, and if they didn't receive news they would start frantically
calling the school to ask if their children arrived safely. This insight
led to one of Identitic’s most defining features: electronic roll
calling in class which immediately alerts parents of their kids’
arrival.

I spent all year looking for funding that would allow me to gain
credibility and grow at a faster pace. The development and data
gathering work I had done until then proved to investors that even
though I was 17, I was capable of running my own startup. In March 2020,
Identitic received seed investment from an important Latam venture
capital firm and my dream became a reality.

The COVID-19 pandemic has compelled the educational system to adapt.
Without the use of software, classes would not have been able to
continue and Identitic proved to be invaluable for schools, changing the
way they manage their administration. It has already been implemented in
several provinces including Buenos Aires, Catamarca and Chubut, both in
the private and public sectors.

The journey that I lived these past years as the CEO of my startup
changed my way of looking at the world. adventure for life. When I
started high school, I wasn't certain about my passions, but after
creating a social impact startup, I found it in the happiness of the
people that used my solution.


Dear Dr. Ré,

I hope your day is going well!

My name is Iñaki Arango. I am Junior currently studying Computer Science
and Statistics at Harvard. Before coming to college I took a gap year
and a half and worked as a software engineer, VC and started a startup.
Building systems, especially if they automate tasks, is one of my
favorite things, and what I mainly worked on last summer.

Recently, I have become more interested in research and was looking for
something that would combine AI/ML/Stats with systems, and a friend from
Stanford shared with me your name. Your FlashAttention work seems super
interesting, as well as well as the work you are doing blending systems
and AI.

I'm at Stanford visiting a friend for Thanksgiving until Saturday and
was wondering if you would be free to meet. I would love to learn more
about your experience, the work you are doing, and everything that
brought you to where you are right now. If you are not here at this time
or aren't free it would also be great to talk over Zoom.

Looking forward to your response!

Best regards,

Iñaki


asdlfkjasdñlf








Hi Chip,

Thank you for sharing this update. While I am disappointed that the Ad
Board has not yet approved my petition, I am encouraged that the Ad
Board will reconsider my request at their next meeting. I am working on
rewriting the relevant sections of my proposal. Do you have any
availability to meet and discuss my updated proposal via Zoom sometime
this week?

Specifically, I would be grateful for your guidance on how to best
address the Ad Board’s feedback in my updated proposal. I am slightly
confused about their concerns since I only have two classes left to
complete my requirements for the Concurrent Master’s degree; thus, the
Master’s requirements are already fulfilled in my proposed two semester
schedule. All additional 2XXX classes that were included in the
three-semester plan are in no way a requirement for the Concurrent
Master’s degree; rather, I am interested in taking them to obtain the
specialized knowledge necessary to conduct my thesis research.

In my updated proposal, I will clarify that CS 2630, which is a required
course for the Concurrent Master's, was only moved to Fall 2025 in the
three-semester plan as a scheduling choice to provide more time for
thesis research in Fall 2024. Doing so would also allow me to take the
optional CS 2822R elective in Fall 2024, which covers interpretability
topics that would be valuable for my thesis work. Thus, all differences
between the two-semester and three-semester proposed course schedules
are in service of my goal to complete a strong and impactful thesis.
Whether or not my request for a ninth semester is approved will have no
bearing on my ability to complete the Concurrent Master’s in CS degree.

I would be very appreciative for your guidance on how to expand on these
statements and/or if there is any additional language that I should
include to address the Ad Board’s concern prior to their next meeting.
Please let me know if you have availability to connect via Zoom this
week. I look forward to discussing.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Iñaki


¿Nunca se preguntaron qué querían hacer de su vida? Probablemente cuando
fueron jóvenes lo hicieron, y yo me lo pregunto todos los días en este
momento tan crucial de la vida, donde se espera que pueda planificar mi
vida y elegir “mi profesión”.

Por ejemplo, yo podría quedarme en Argentina, ir a la UBA, seguir
desarrollando mi compañía y trabajar de “empresario”. O podría terminar
mis exámenes internacionales, aplicar para irme a Estados Unidos,
estudiar en una Universidad de allá, y después decidir a qué me quiero
dedicar, siempre limitado por la carrera que elegí, por supuesto. Aunque
allá son mucho más libres que eso, y en realidad uno no elige una
carrera, sino que elige un “major”, una especie de orientación. Uno
elige en qué se quiere especializar, pero sigue estudiando cualquier
otra cosa que quiera, cuanto uno quiera. Es una especie de orientación
de ORT, solo que el tronco común es variable y opcional. Más allá de
todo esto, igualmente mi burbuja de pensamiento siempre me llevaría a
los negocios y a la computación.

Las personas me dan distintas opiniones, y me intentan mostrar los
beneficios y consecuencias de cada una de las opciones. Todo esto me
puso a pensar. ¿Cuál es la mejor manera de vivir, por lo menos para mi?
Para resolver mis dudas me inspiré en varios filósofos, tanto antiguos
como contemporáneos. Comencé por Descartes. Él siempre buscó “la verdad”
y entendía que la mayoría de las problemas que bloquean al humano tienen
algo en común: que uno se está planteando una pregunta demasiado amplia
como para resolver directamente. Él decía que este tipo de pregunta,
como la que me hice yo, debía ser primera dividida en otras más pequeñas
y fáciles de digerir.

Descartes era un ávido proponente del método científico. La forma más
fácil de entender lo que él pensaba en ese momento es con una analogía.
Suponga que uno tiene un canasto con manzanas. El canasto es la mente de
de uno y cada manzana es una idea o pensamiento que uno tiene.

El filósofo sabía que como sus pensamientos actuales no habían sido
minuciosamente analizados con el método racional, él no podía asegurarse
de que fuesen verdadero. Esto se puede asimilar con que uno sabe que en
el canasto puede haber manzanas podridas, pero no sabe cuántas ni
cuáles. Lo que él proponía era sacar todas las manzanas del canasto,
inspeccionar una por una, e ir poniéndolas nuevamente en el canasto.

El comenzó, por lo tanto, a aplicar ese pensamiento a su vida. Lo que él
veía, podía ser tanto verdad como mentira, podían ser trucos que le
estaban jugando la vista. Por esta razón, no los tomó como verdad.
Empezó por lo único que realmente podía asegurar, que él existía, como
ser pensante. Su cuerpo podría no existir, y ser una invención, pero el
hecho de que estuviese obteniendo estas conclusiones implicaba que él
era un ser pensante, sin lugar a duda. Fue en ese momento que escribió
la famosa frase “Cogito ergo sum”, “Pienso, por lo tanto soy”. No me voy
a poner a discutir en este momento su frase y su significado, sino que
me voy a concentrar en por qué fue esa la primer verdad a la que llegó.
Descartes empezó por sí mismo, con su primer pregunta: ¿Existo?. Y la
intentó responder con lo más profundo de su ser, su habilidad de pensar.

Se me ocurrió entonces hacer lo mismo, pero intentando resolver mi
pregunta mayor. Lo primero fue encontrar mi primer micro pregunta, para
empezar a resolver de a poco, mi pregunta mayor. La que encontré fue:
¿Yo quiero algo para mi vida, o pienso que lo quiero?. La respuesta muy
simplificada y en concreto, es que depende de qué manera deseamos algo.
Pero no me gusta dejarlo así en el aire, quiero explicar mi línea de
razonamiento, y para eso vamos a tener que remontar a Hume.

Hume creía que había dos unidades elementales: las ideas y las
impresiones. Las impresiones llevan a ideas, y estas pueden ser
combinadas en la mente para generar nuevas ideas, no generadas
directamente por una impresión.

Hay que ver como meter el tema de las ideas y las impresiones. Las
impresiones llevan a ideas, y pueden ser combinadas en la mente para
generar nuevas ideas, no directamente generadas por la impresión. Hay
tres tipos de conexiones, que llevan a la unión y combinación de ideas:

-   Por parecido: Dos cosas se parecen, por lo que se agrupan en una
    categoría. Ej: Dos especies de árbol, dan la idea conjunta de un
    árbol genérico.

-   Por continuidad: Uno ve a un objeto interactuar con otro. Ej: Uno ve
    a un pájaro parado sobre un árbol, por lo que los conecta, y a
    partir de ese momento, asocia las dos ideas.

-   Causa y efecto: Uno ve que muchas veces que algo ocurre, otra cosa
    ocurre. Ej: Cada vez que escribo con un lápiz un papel, deja una
    marca, por lo que conecto las dos ideas.

Estas conexiones inevitablemente lleva a escepticismo, porque uno con
estas “herramientas”, puede entender como dos impresiones, y sus
correspondientes ideas se relacionan, pero por ejemplo, en “causa y
efecto”, por aprender todo por experiencia, no hay forma de que sepamos
que efectivamente lo que estamos presenciando es causalidad, y no
correlación.

Hume despierta la pregunta: ¿Cómo podemos tener una vida tranquila y
fructífera estando intranquilos sobre las causas de los eventos que nos
rodean en el día a día?.

El filósofo dice que estas asociaciones entre ideas y conclusiones a
partir de experiencia llevan inevitablemente al establecimiento de
rutinas y hábitos. Expandamos sobre el ejemplo anterior para entender
mejor el concepto. Uno asocia el papel y el lápiz, y sabe que
utilizarlos en combinación deja una marca. Esto lo sabemos porque cada
vez que los usamos en conjunto efectivamente deja una marca. Creamos la
costumbre, entonces, de juntar el papel y el lápiz para escribir cada
vez que queramos plasmar algún pensamiento o idea nuestra en un medio
físico.

Ahora, que pasaría si estando acostumbrados a hacer esto, la próxima vez
que escribimos con un lápiz en un papel, ya no deja una marca, la
consecuencia es otra, y a veces se entiende por qué cambió el efecto de
esta acción, y a veces no se entiende la razón. Esto es lo que está
pasando en el mundo actual.

La situación socioeconómica mundial está cambiando a un ritmo muy
acelerado. Mayor al de cualquier otro momento en la historia. Y las
ideas que teníamos en la antigüedad, incluso en hace relativamente poco,
ya no podemos sostenerlas como verdad. Hay que ponerse a cuestionarlas
todas, porque podrían ser parte de las realidades que están cambiando en
el mundo. Hay que repensar todo.

Por ahora, si bien avanzamos bastante en nuestro camino a la verdad, no
llegamos al final. Claramente, seguimos teniendo la misma pregunta, así
que continuemos expandiendo estas ideas.

Los pensamientos de Hume lo llevan al determinismo, diciendo que el
origen de las acciones que uno realiza no están dentro de uno, sino que
están afuera, y por lo tanto uno nunca es un verdadero actor
intencionado. Las pasiones, según el filósofo, son las que gobiernan
nuestra mente y cuerpo. Para él, la educación debería estar centrada en
cómo controlar las pasiones, para que no tengan un efecto tan fuerte y
controlador sobre nuestras decisiones.

Personalmente esta última idea me hizo recordar a lo que Nietzsche
opinaba sobre la envidia en su momento. Él dijo que la envidia no era
mala, siempre y cuando la usemos con un buen fin, como nuestra guía para
la vida, para lo que queremos. La envidia a un chef famoso, a un
empresario, a un corredor de carreras, nos muestra lo que realmente
queremos conseguir, porque si efectivamente son nuestras emociones las
expresiones de nuestro más profundo ser y nuestras más profundas
emociones y deseos, entonces es la envidia lo que nos muestra lo que
realmente queremos conseguir en un futuro.

Nietzsche opinaba que la envidia nos mostraba nuestro verdadero
potencial, en lo que nos podemos llegar a convertir, pero por
experiencia personal (no le iba bien en muchas áreas de su vida, como lo
económico, lo personal, y lo familiar) entendía que uno no siempre
conseguía eso que quería o que envidiaba. Sin embargo, proponía que lo
que uno tenía que hacer, era dar su mayor esfuerzo, y enfrentarse los
más fuertemente posible con los obstáculos que se encontraban en su
camino hacia lo que uno verdaderamente quiere de la vida.

En contraste, Hume pensaba que uno estaba permanentemente siendo
influenciado por su exterior, y por lo tanto pocas ideas podían ser
consideradas propias. A primera vista, uno pensaría que la opinión su
opinión y la de Nietzsche estaban enfrentadas, pero a través de un
análisis más profundo se puede llegar a la conclusión de que no es así,
o por lo menos no del todo. Las envidias de uno, a veces son
influenciadas por lo que la sociedad nos enseña, o espera de nosotros.
En ese sentido, Hume piensa distinto que Nietzsche, y estoy de acuerdo
con Hume.

Pero también hay que tener en cuenta una de las ideas centrales de
Nietzsche, que hay que abandonar la cristiandad. Esto, según él, es
porque le inculcó a la sociedad que hay que reprimir la envidia, que es
completamente negativa, y que hay que avergonzarse por sentirla. Desde
ese punto de vista, Nietzsche acuerda con Hume que la sociedad puede
afectar lo que uno siente y piensa, pero donde se diferencian, es que
Nietzsche cree que las cosas por las que uno siente envidia, son
verdaderamente expresiones de los deseos más profundos de uno, y no se
ven afectados por la presión social.

La conclusión a la que llegué después de todo este camino fue que lo que
uno desea puede o no estar influenciado por el resto, pero para entender
mejor si está o no para un caso específico lo mejor es analizar lo que
uno siente. Creo que uno no está influenciado por la sociedad si uno
siente que vienen de lo más profundo del ser, y uno siente emociones
puras hacia esos deseos, como la envidia. Ahora, creo que si ese no es
el caso, entonces lo que uno piensa que desea no es lo que en realidad
desea, sino lo que a uno le enseñaron que hay que desear.

Una vez resuelta esta pregunta, me surgió la pregunta: ¿Por qué la gente
suele respaldar casi siempre las decisiones que tomó en la vida, sin
importarle que en realidad hayan tenido un efecto generalmente
negativa?. Es como si viviesen en su propia burbuja de elecciones que
cometieron.

Es como que cada uno viviese dentro de su propia caverna de Platón y las
sombras las interpretase en base a lo que ya conoce, a las elecciones
que ya tomó en la vida. De esta manera, uno se adentra cada vez más en
la cueva, generando una burbuja de ideas alrededor de uno mismo. Al
igual que en la analogía original de la cueva, cuando alguien con otra
forma de pensar se acerca y los intenta convencer de que en realidad
están equivocados, se resisten violentamente. La diferencia entre la
concepción de Platón y el mundo actual, es que la mayoría de las
personas, siguen adentro de su propia cueva, por lo menos para la
mayoría de los temas, por lo que lleva a discusiones sobre la burbuja de
quíen es la más correcta. Son pocos los que están dispuestos a adaptar
la forma en la que ven la vida para entender el punto de vista de las
otras personas, y menos todavía los que están dispuestos a luego llegar
a un compromiso de ideas.

Esta problemática me hizo acordar a la razón por la que Nietzsche estaba
en contra del consumo de alcohol. No era un mero punto dietético, sino
que tenía un explicación y se alineaba con sus ideas. Según él, tanto el
cristianismo como el alcohol permitían ocultar, opacar el dolor, e
impedían a las personas tomar las acciones necesarias, cuán difíciles
fuesen, para mejorar sus vidas. Según Nietzsche, el alcohol y el
cristianismo, dejan a las personas en un constante estado de
despreocupación y de ausencia de ganas de mejorar.

Todas las cosas que opaquen el estado en el que uno se encuentra, llevan
a un eventual deterioro de la persona. Esta no busca activamente
mejorar, salir de su burbuja, de su cueva, y como no busca eso, nunca se
termina de dar cuenta que realmente está dentro de una burbuja. Para la
persona, siempre todo luce igual, oscuro, y no existe otra realidad más
correcta que la suya. Como opinó Descartes, uno solo se da cuenta de que
está soñando cuando se despierta. De la misma manera que uno no se da
cuenta que está en una cueva limitada por sus pensamientos hasta que uno
sale. Pero para salir, uno tiene que primero aceptar la posibilidad de
que uno esté en una cueva, y yace ahí la dificultad.

Puede que esta sea la explicación detrás de nuestra segunda pregunta, o
por lo menos una que me conforma.

Escribiendo el párrafo anterior, precísamente la palabra “conforma”, me
hizo acordar al concepto Amor Fati, tan alabado por Nietzsche. En mi
opinión, resulta contradictorio que la persona que se opone al alcohol y
a la iglesia por proveer una vía de escape que le permita a las personas
ignorar los errores de su pasado, y por lo tanto aprender, pensase en
este concepto como la fórmula para la grandeza humana. Una especie de
amor poderoso por la vida, de aceptación de todo lo que ha pasado en la
vida de uno. La persona que siente este amor fati no parece querer
borrar nada de su pasado. Por el contrario, acepta lo que ha ocurrido,
lo bueno y lo malo, lo errado y lo correcto, con una fuerza y gratitud
que se aproxima a una especie de afecto entusiasta.

Otro filósofo que habló sobre la introspección y retrovisión fue
Foucault. Él expresaba que no había que creer lo que es comúnmente
dicho, o superficialmente aparente, sobre que las cosas son mejores en
el presente. Lo que había que hacer era estudiar cómo eran las cosas el
pasado, y ver qué es lo que verdaderamente le hace mejor a la sociedad.
Aunque Foucault inspiró sus ideas originales en textos de Nietzsche,
podemos ver que después de un tiempo se separa, pasa, sin decirlo, a
oponerse completamente al Amor Fati. Habla constantemente sobre reveer
el pasado para comprobar si efectivamente estamos mejor ahora, o hay que
retomar costumbres previas, que tenían un mejor impacto en la sociedad.

Foucault no quería dejar la la historia como algo prístino, intocable.
Él veía a la historia como una fuente de buenas ideas y quería
saquearla. Proponía reveer la situación actual, y cuestionarla
completamente. Proponía ver la historia de nuestras instituciones
actuales, y ver como estas habían evolucionado a través de la historia.
Tanto para entenderlas mejor, como para poder, en el presente, hacerlas
tener un mejor impacto en la sociedad.

En conclusión, a partir del análisis de todos estos autores, y de mi
opinión propia, concluí que la mejor vida que uno puede tener, es la que
uno más disfrute. Eso parece bastante simple, pero el verdadero avance
lo hice en entender cómo llegar a la vida que más disfrute. Lo ideal,
obviamente, sería vivir cada opción que uno tiene, y luego elegir lo
mejor, pero lamentablemente no es posible, o por lo menos no lo es para
mí. Por eso, lo mejor que uno puede hacer es abrir la mente lo más
posible, intentar salir de cualquier burbuja, cueva o paradigma en el
que uno se encuentre, escuchar las experiencias de la mayor cantidad de
personas que uno pueda, e investigar por uno mismo las alternativas. Una
vez que uno haya hecho eso, puede tomar una decisión tranquilo. Puede,
porque todo puede pasar, que incluso después de todo esto, resulte ser
una mala opción la elegida, pero un verdaderamente se queda más
tranquilo por saber que en el momento, uno tomó la mejor decisión que
podía tomar con la información que tenía.

Bibliografía

-   El cuadernillo de Filosofía

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SWlUKJIMge4

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1RWOpQXTltA

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAjWUrwvxs4

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l04HlEP-N60

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLKrmw906TM

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8XSqkeOnPI

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HS52H_CqZLE

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHWbZmg2hzU

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Xzh1BjCA5Q

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hb_4oQ0fXlw

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BBJTeNTZtGU

-   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94HrovuxWGg


Ben-Hur: The Construction of the Greatest Christian Epic of its Time

Across the history of modern filmography, few epics have enjoyed the
scale and grandeur of the 1959 film Ben-Hur. With a budget exceeding $15
million and access to over 200 camels, 2,500 horses, and 10,000 extras,
Ben-Hur was Hollywood´s most expensive film at the time. Directed by
William Wyler, this cinematic masterpiece was based on Lew Wallace’s
novel Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ, one of the most influential
Christian novels of the 19th century (Lifson, 2009). The film chronicles
the life of Judah Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince who fought Roman oppression
in Judea in the first century AD. The budget and resources invested in
Ben-Hur are the material manifestations of the film’s moral mission: a
testament to Christian values. Throughout the movie, the director draws
from Roman culture and highlights Roman egocentricity, brutality, and
opulence to demonstrate Roman oppression in Judea and convey support for
Christian values.

Throughout the film, the Romans are depicted as narcissistic and
egocentric. From Messala’s first conversation with Ben-Hur in his
office, it is apparent that the Romans hold no respect for anyone who
dares oppose them. When discussing a potential rebellion in the region,
Messala gloats that the army will “crush” anyone who stands up against
the regime. He exhibits brutality, a quality celebrated in Roman culture
(Week 7, Slide 15), and claims to view Ben-Hur as a Roman, who has
little in common with the “rabble that makes trouble” in those lands.
According to Messala, “it is a Roman world,” and fine men like Judah
must join them if they want to be part of it. He thinks it is not an
accident that “a small village on the Tiber was chosen to rule the
world.” He attributes Roman greatness not only to their legions, but to
their roads, ships, law, architecture, and literature. Despite Messala’s
childhood upbringing in Jerusalem and friendship with Ben-Hur, he
renounces his past to condemn the Jews and other tribes as inferiors and
barbarians. The self-ascribed superiority of the Romans is made explicit
in the scene where a bookie in the baths, a prototypical Roman space,
offers Messala to place a bet against Judah. Even though it was for a
substantial amount of money, Messala accepts the 4 to 1 odds, stating
that that is “the difference between a Roman and a Jew”. This negative
trait is an exemplar of Roman arrogance and egoism.

The film also highlights the Roman Army’s exploitation of their slaves
and the cruelty with which slaves were treated in the Roman Empire.
Because slavery in Rome was rooted in wartime victory rather than in
racial differences – that is, after losing a war against the Army,
citizens of other tribes were often captured and enslaved – it was
common even for people of Roman ethnicity to be forced into servitude.
Slavery was seen as a legal status and the fruit of war. Thus,
historians have suggested that, unlike the transatlantic slave trade of
the 16th to the 19th centuries, slaves of the Roman Empire were not
always treated poorly or forced to do manual labor. Rather, many Roman
slaves were well-educated and performed valuable tasks for their
masters, like scribing, tutoring their children, and keeping the books
for the family business (Out of the Hands of Slaves: A Comparative
History of the Roman Book Production Economy – Dartmouth Ancient Books
Lab, 2016). However, these historical accounts of Roman slavery are not
accurately represented in the film Ben-Hur. The film’s depictions of
slaves of the Roman Army, including and especially the scenes in the
sea, highlight the exploitation and harassment of the enslaved people.
These characterizations reinforce the perception of the Roman Army as a
brutal, harsh, and privileged institution (Week 7, Slide 14). By
omitting the fact that not all slaves were forced to do manual labor in
Rome, the film constructs an image of a villainous and merciless Roman
Empire.

The arrogant and cruel Romans are juxtaposed with the Jews to impose a
social and moral divide between these two groups. The clothing and
adornments of the Romans highlight their opulence, as do the buildings
and Roman architecture on display. Roman characters, regardless of their
social status, are draped in togas, or showing off legion armor, while
Judah and the other Jews are dressed simply, with less jewelry or
colorful clothes, both of which were expensive things at the time
(Colors of Roman Clothing). Further, when Ben-Hur and the Consul return
to Rome after their sea voyage, the viewer is presented with one of the
most magnificent scenes of the movie: the Roman Triumph (Week 3, Slide
20). Hundreds of soldiers in shiny armor walk through Rome with the
victorious general in a chariot up front. The display of Rome as a
white, glistening city made of marble and gold paints a stark difference
with the scenes of the Jewish towns, which are less bright and with
fewer buildings, most of which are made of wood and mud. The clear
disparity between the wealth of the Romans and the plight of the Jews
helps differentiate the moral status of the tyrannical Romans from that
of the virtuous Jews.

The Jews, who ultimately convert to Christianity, are contrasted with
the Romans to depict the former as morally righteous and to promote
Christian values of love, peace, kindness, faithfulness, and
self-control (Galatians 5:22-23 NIV). Presumably to appease a wider
audience, the movie’s plot was transformed from the original story of
Jesus and peripheral biblical figures. The director instead focuses on
Ben-Hur’s role as an underdog, and how he represents Christian values
while fighting the Romans. Throughout the film, Judah shows goodness and
forbearance. He treats his slaves as friends and equals, and readily
frees Simonides’ daughter when she asks to marry a merchant. He also is
presented with the opportunity to kill Messala in his office, and the
Consul in his sleep, but regardless of the pain they have caused him, he
chooses not to. While not a Christian at the beginning of the movie, he
encounters Jesus and other biblical figures throughout the plot. By the
conclusion of the film, Ben-Hur becomes a true believer in the gospel of
Christ, which can be observed when his family is miraculously redeemed
from leprosy. The conversion of Ben-Hur associates all the positive
attributes and goodwill garnered by Ben-Hur throughout the film with the
Christian faith, completing the arc of the story and securing the film’s
status as a Christian epic.

In sum, through the use of Roman material culture to construct an
anti-hero – specifically, Messala, or more broadly, the Roman Empire –
who acts as a moral counterbalance, Ben-Hur emphasizes the positive
values of Christianity and distills the teachings of the Bible into a
captivating movie for a wide audience. The movie and Wyler’s talents as
a director enjoyed critical acclaim in Christian-dominated circles
across America and Europe. Yet, perhaps the most telling evidence of
Ben-Hur’s proselytizing mission is where the film was shunned: under the
regime of Mao Zedong, China banned the movie for promoting “propaganda
of superstitious beliefs, namely Christianity.” Nonetheless, as the
greatest Western epic film of its time, Ben-Hur inspired a generation of
Christian films, which continue to advocate for and disseminate
Christian and Christian-inspired values in modern society.

References

  Ben-Hur (1959) - Frequently Asked Questions. (n.d.). IMDb. Retrieved
  April 8, 2023, from https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0052618/faq

  Colors of Roman Clothing. (n.d.). Roman Colosseum. Retrieved April 8,
  2023, from
  http://www.tribunesandtriumphs.org/roman-clothing/colors-of-roman-clothing.htm

  Galatians 5:22-23 NIV - But the fruit of the Spirit is love. (n.d.).
  Bible Gateway. Retrieved April 8, 2023, from
  https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Galatians%205%3A22-23&version=NIV

  Libya in the Roman era. (n.d.). Wikipedia. Retrieved April 8, 2023,
  from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libya_in_the_Roman_era

  Lifson, A. (2009, December 1). Ben-Hur. Humanities: The Magazine of
  the National Endowment for the Humanities.
  https://web.archive.org/web/20151015220552/http://www.neh.gov/humanities/2009/novemberdecember/feature/ben-hur

  Out of the Hands of Slaves: A Comparative History of the Roman book
  production Economy – Dartmouth Ancient Books Lab. (2016, May 24).
  Sites at Dartmouth. Retrieved April 8, 2023, from
  https://sites.dartmouth.edu/ancientbooks/2016/05/24/out-of-the-hands-of-slaves-a-comparative-history-of-the-roman-book-production-economy/


Carrying the Weight of History: A Little Weight’s Tale of Roman Life and
Trade

In the thriving heart of the Roman Empire, a master artisan once
meticulously crafted a steelyard weight. It bore the image of a plump,
young emperor, adorned with a laurel-wreath crown and armor featuring a
gorgoneion. Though some would later argue that it represented Nero, the
true intention of the artisan was to evoke a more generic imperial image
(McClanan). The weight, once completed, was destined for a life of
adventure and trade, traversing the Mediterranean Sea and playing a
crucial role in the Roman economy.

The steelyard weight’s journey began in one of the many bustling
marketplaces of Rome, where it was purchased by a successful merchant
named Gallus. Gallus recognized the value of the weight, with its finely
modeled features and carefully articulated scale pattern on the figure’s
armor. The weight would become an essential tool for his business,
measuring bulk goods as they were traded between the far-reaching
corners of the empire.

As Gallus and the steelyard weight embarked on their journeys together,
they witnessed firsthand the Roman economy in action. The weight was
slid along the bar of the scale to determine the value of goods such as
grain, olive oil, and precious metals (Week 9, Slide 15, 30). With each
transaction, the steelyard weight played its part in the exchange of
wealth and resources that sustained the empire.

Over time, the weight came to understand the diverse cultures and
peoples that made up the Roman Empire. From the opulent villas of
wealthy aristocrats to the humble homes of farmers and laborers, it saw
the complex tapestry of Roman life unfold (Week 9, Slide 14). It came to
know the merchants who traveled with it, their stories of loss and
triumph, and the unique ways in which they contributed to the empire’s
prosperity.

Years turned to decades, and the steelyard weight found itself in the
possession of a new merchant, Lucius, who had acquired it after Gallus’
lost it in a bet while visiting the city of Antioch. Lucius continued to
use the weight in his business dealings, preserving its role in the
Roman economy. By this time, the steelyard weight had become a witness
to history and an unwitting participant in the evolution of the empire.
It saw the rise of new emperors and the fall of old ones, the growth of
cities and the decline of others, and the changing face of the
Mediterranean world (Week 9, Slide 9).

The journeys of the steelyard weight led it to countless ports, where it
met other weights bearing the images of empresses and deities such as
Athena (McClanan). This vibrant collection of weights, crafted from
various shapes and materials, reflected the diversity of Roman small
bronzes and the artistic expressions that pervaded the empire. With each
new encounter, the steelyard weight became part of a broader story, one
that spoke to the interconnectedness of the Roman world.

One memorable journey brought weight to Arabia. There, the weight played
a crucial role in a trade negotiation between its owner, Lucius, and a
wealthy merchant from India named Aryan. The deal involved a shipment of
exotic spices from India, highly sought-after commodities in Rome (The
Indo-Roman Spice Trade). Aryan had arrived with his cargo of cinnamon
and black pepper, eager to sell his goods at a premium price.

Being a shrewd businessman, Lucius knew the value of these rare spices
and was determined to strike a favorable deal. As the two merchants
haggled over the price, the steelyard weight silently observed the
exchange from its position on the scale. As it was slid along the bar,
it determined the value of the spices and ultimately sealed the deal
between Lucius and Aryan. The agreement led to a lasting partnership
that would benefit both parties for years to come.

Through its travels and encounters, the weight played a small yet
significant role in the lives of the people it met. From the bustling
markets of Rome to the quiet shores of the Mediterranean, the little
weight left a mark on the lives it touched.

However, as with all things, the weight’s time in the sun eventually
came to an end. It found itself aboard a ship bound for the eastern
reaches of the empire, packed alongside other goods and treasures. But
fate had other plans for the steelyard weight. A powerful storm struck
the vessel as it sailed near the coast of modern-day Turkey (Sams, 1982,
202-30). The ship, unable to withstand the tempest, sank to the depths
of the Mediterranean, taking the weight with it.

Centuries passed, and the steelyard weight lay undisturbed on the sea
floor, its story seemingly forgotten by the sands of time. But fortune
would once more shine upon it when a team of maritime archaeologists
discovered the shipwreck and the treasures it held. Among the artifacts
recovered was the steelyard weight, its once-pristine features now worn
from the passage of time and the elements (McClanan). Once carefully
restored, the weight began a new chapter in its eventful existence.

After a long journey through the hands of collectors and scholars, the
steelyard weight eventually found its way to the Harvard Art Museums,
where it would be studied and admired by new generations of scholars.
Its arrival at Harvard marked the beginning of a new era for the
artifact, one in which it would serve as a tangible connection to the
past and a source of inspiration for those seeking to understand the
complexities of the Roman Empire.

The steelyard weight may no longer travel the Mediterranean or weigh the
bulk goods of ancient merchants, but its legacy lives on in the hearts
and minds of those who study it. Through their learning, they will shed
light on the long-lost tales of the merchants who once relied on the
weight, the artisans who crafted it, and the countless individuals whose
stories intersected with its own.

And so, the life of the steelyard weight continues as a source of
inspiration and knowledge for those who seek to understand the past.
Through the eyes of each new generation, the weight’s story will be
reimagined and reinterpreted. As students continue to explore the
weight’s storied past and its place within the broader narrative of the
Roman Empire, they will contribute not only to our understanding of
history but also to the enduring legacy of the artifact itself. For the
steelyard weight, its journey from the depths of the Mediterranean to
the halls of Harvard is a testament to the enduring power of history and
the stories we tell about it – a legacy that will undoubtedly continue
for generations to come.

2012.1.97: Emperor Bust Weight (Measuring Devices)
[]

[]

Example of a Roman-era scale like the one that would have used the
weight

References

  McClanan, A. L. (n.d.). 2012.1.97: Emperor Bust Weight. Harvard Art
  Museums. Retrieved April 25, 2023, from
  https://harvardartmuseums.org/collections/object/54472

  Sams, K. G. (1982). The Weighing Implements. In G. F. Bass & J.
  Doorninck (Eds.), Yassi Ada: A Seventh-Century Byzantine Shipwreck
  (202-30, 224).
  https://www.academia.edu/36950925/1982_YASSI_ADA_Vol_I_A_Seventh_Century_Byzantine_Shipwreck

  The Indo-Roman Spice Trade.
  https://foodanddining.omeka.net/exhibits/show/spicesoftheancientromanworld/the-indo-roman-spice-trade


Idea

Pölh is a platform that facilitates the issuance of documents and
certificates on the blockchain. All this is done in an easy and
intuitive way.

The fact that the data about the issuer of a document as well as the
document itself is on one of the largest blockchains in the world
(Ethereum), allows anyone to be able to check, instantaneously, that a
document has not been altered and it is impossible to get rid of it.

Need

As of today, the costs of the different procedures that concern legal
documents are high due to the inefficiencies in the system. This also
results in long waits between each step in a legal procedure. Moreover,
for a third party to check the validity of a certificate or contract, it
is necessary for it to call some institution, be it private or
governmental, what takes time and is inefficient.

Implementation

Now that the need is clear, we can start with the solution. We propose a
platform, Pölh, that allows you, from a document identifier code (DIC),
to find all the information concerning a document (the content itself,
the issuer or signatories, dates, etc.).

The code is entered into Pölh Visualizer, a web page with a user
interface and experience similar to Google Search, that allows the user
to easily and intuitively find the information that one needs pertaining
to a document.

The documents cannot be issued freely. For security reasons, and in an
attempt to maintain the integrity of the system, the issues have to
previously sign up with us, and pass an identity check. They have to be
who they claim to be. After this, they can, through the Pölh Manager
website, manage and visualize documents.

On Pölh Manager they can also find instructions for the automatization
of document issuance. Why is this so? Because the platform is designed
to be easily integrated with existing systems of all kinds. The first
clients that we are targeting are informal educational institutions,
like Digital House (from Argentina), Udemy, Acámica (also from
Argentina), etc.. These usually issue a certificate at the end of a
course, but currently there is no method that ticks all of the following
boxes: secure, quick, easy and standardized. Each platform has its own
independent certification system if they have one. We offer all of these
institutions easy integration so that they can issue and manage their
certificates through the Pölh ecosystem, which provides various
advantages over current solutions, as it was previously stated and
explained.


FIP Leader Responsibilities

Being a FIP leader is a year-long responsibility. Together with your
co-parents you will be welcoming incoming students to the Harvard
environment and introducing them to the broader FIP and international
community on campus. FIP primarily takes place during a 6 day period
before First-Year Orientation; however, you will have duties prior to,
during and after the official orientation.

Responsibilities might include:

Before FIP:

-   Attending the mandatory April training session

-   Bonding with your co-parents

-   Communicating with you family to establish a rapport

-   Completing committee work in a timely fashion and communicating with
    committee members

During FIP

-   Leading family events and participating in FIP-wide events

-   Fulfilling committee responsibilities

-   Maintaining open and honest communication with your family and
    Co-Chairs

After FIP

-   Maintaining relationships with your family and serving as a point of
    contact regarding any questions or concerns

-   Looking out for your kids and other FIP participants

-   Contributing actively and positively to the international community

Leaders will be required to participate in the April training, return to
campus August 20, and give FIP their full attention from August 21-29.
Please message us directly if this poses an unavoidable conflict for
you. If you are unclear about your summer plans, we encourage you to
apply anyway and keep us updated if your plans/commitments change at any
point during the application process.

Applications are due on Sunday, March 26 at 11:59 PM EDT. Please fill
out the application form here.

For any questions, please contact Manas (mkulkarni@college.harvard.edu)
or Sara (saradahiya@college.harvard.edu). We will also be holding FIP
Leader Application Office Hours in Adams Dining Hall for the application
on:

-   Tuesday, March 21, 6 - 8 pm

-   Friday, March 24, 4 - 6pm

-   Saturday, March 23, 2 - 4 pm

Feel free to contact us about alternate times, if these hours don’t work
for you.

Please find the application questions below. Feel free to make a copy of
this document to save and edit your application responses before
officially submitting on the Google Form.

FIP Leader Application 2023

Basic Information

-   First Name

-   Last Name

-   Harvard Email

-   Class (e.g., 2024, 2025, etc.) If you have taken a leave of absence,
    please select ‘Other’ and tell us your original social class and
    anticipated graduating class.

-   Phone number (with area code in parentheses)

-   House

-   Concentration (First Years, you can indicate intended
    concentration.)

-   Extracurriculars (List up to five activities.)

-   Please describe your previous involvement with FIP.

-   Have you previously been a FIP leader?

New Leader Application

1.  Why do you want to be a FIP Leader? (100 words)

    a.  When I first came to the US I was still quite unsure about
        whether I really wanted to spend the next 4 years of my life. I
        felt like I had a lot in common with people from other
        countries, but not so much with Americans. While I did not go
        through FIP or First Year Orientation, I had a very similar
        experience at Rice. I was put in an Orientation Week family of
        8, with kids from all over the country and the world, and had a
        full week packed from morning to night of activities. I would
        like to pass that forward to the Class of 2027 and help them
        make as good memories as I have while helping them transition to
        the US lifestyle.

2.  What would make you a good FIP leader? (200 words)

    a.  When it comes to being a good FIP leader, I think I've got a few
        things going for me. First and foremost, I've got experience
        teaching, which means I know how to break down complex topics
        into bite-sized pieces that are easy to digest. I think this
        skill will come in handy when I'm helping new students
        understand what life at Harvard and in the US is all about.

    b.  I'm also pretty good at reading people's emotions. If someone's
        feeling overwhelmed or homesick, I think I'll be able to provide
        the support they need to get through it. And if I'm not the
        right person for the job, I can direct them to the other leaders
        of the FIP family, or someone else in the FIP leadership that
        can.

    c.  Another thing that makes me a good fit for the job is my own
        experience as an international student. I moved to the US as a
        freshman two years ago, so I know what it's like to navigate a
        new culture and a new academic system. I think this shared
        experience will help me connect with new students..

    d.  Finally, I'm a pretty outgoing and friendly person. I enjoy
        meeting new people and striking up conversations, which I think
        will be important when it comes to helping new students make
        friends and feel like they're part of a community. I think a
        strong sense of community is really important for making FIP
        successful, and I'm excited to help create that.

3.  What does FIP mean to you? (50-100 words)

    a.  To me, FIP is a comfortable space that provides a supportive
        community for international students transitioning to life at
        Harvard. As someone who has experienced the challenges of
        adapting to a new culture firsthand, I understand how
        overwhelming and isolating it can feel to arrive in a new
        country without a familiar support system. FIP is important
        because it creates a space where students can connect with
        others who are going through a similar experience and build
        friendships and support networks that can last a lifetime.

    b.  Additionally, the program provides a wealth of resources and
        information to help new students navigate the practical
        challenges of living in the US. When I came here, I struggled,
        and still do, with piecing together all the disparate
        information about immigration rules, tax laws, etc. Having it
        explained to you by someone that has gone through the same
        process is incredibly valuable.

4.  What would be the biggest challenge of being a FIP leader for you?
    How would you deal with this? (150 words)

    a.  As a FIP leader, I believe that my biggest challenge would be
        managing the various administrative tasks and responsibilities
        that come with the role. There are a lot of emails, forms, and
        requirements that need to be completed before and during the
        program, such as waivers, trainings, and schedules. It can be
        overwhelming at times to keep track of everything while also
        providing support to the students.

    b.  To overcome this challenge, I have developed a system to manage
        my time effectively. I have allotted 15 minutes in the morning
        and 15 minutes in the afternoon to check important emails, so I
        don't miss any important communications. Additionally, I will
        keep a detailed calendar of all the tasks that need to be
        completed and set reminders to ensure that I stay on top of
        everything. I believe that this approach will help me stay
        organized and focused on my responsibilities as a FIP leader,
        while also allowing me to be there for the students when they
        need me.

5.  FIP aims to promote a sense of belonging within the broader Harvard
    community for international students. Describe a contribution you’ve
    made to a community, and how that experience might influence your
    approach to building inclusive environments as a FIP Leader.
    (150-200 words)

    a.  I applied and was selected to be an OWeek advisor at Rice, so I
        underwent the training required to handle difficult social
        situations, make people feel comfortable, and create activities
        that everyone in the group would enjoy. We learned about the
        best ways to build an inclusive community.

    b.  One specific example of a contribution I made to a community
        during that time was by making posters for new students based on
        their interests. I found this to be a great way to help students
        connect with each other and form friendships. It was rewarding
        to see the impact of these posters as students started to bond
        over their shared interests.

    c.  I believe that this experience will translate well to FIP as I
        work to build an inclusive environment for incoming
        international students. I know how important it is to make
        people feel welcomed and supported, especially when they are in
        a new environment. I plan to use my skills and experiences to
        create a space where students feel they belong and can thrive.

6.  What were some aspects of FIP that you think could be improved? If
    you were not on FIP last year, what would you say would need to be
    done to make an in-person FIP successful? (150-200 words)

    a.  A key factor of the FIP experience is ensuring that the new
        students have the resources and support they need to adjust to
        life at Harvard and in the United States. A lot of information
        is scattered across many government websites, emails, and
        documents. We need to provide comprehensive information
        regarding topics such as immigration, academic expectations, and
        cultural norms so that the FIPpers can hit the ground running
        when the semester starts.

    b.  It is also important to create a sense of community and
        belonging. This can be done through group activities (like the
        one described below) and social events, such as outings to local
        landmarks, as well as cultural events. Providing opportunities
        for FIPpers to connect with each other and build relationships
        is especially important since international students are likely
        to feel homesick or isolated due to the sudden change of
        environment. These friendships will ease the transition into the
        first semester at Harvard and will hopefully remain part of
        their core support system for all 4 years of college.

    c.  Lastly, it is important that we evaluate in a somewhat objective
        manner the success of the program, and collect feedback from the
        new students to identify areas for potential improvement. This
        would allow us to make adjustments to the program that make the
        experience better for future FIPpers.

7.  Give us three examples of activities you are passionate about and
    would like to include in this year’s program.

    a.  A great way to bring people together is by making them
        collaborate toward a common goal. Even better if they get to eat
        the common goal. We did a Sushi-making Social for HUQT and it
        went great. It was also a great opportunity for older and
        younger people to connect, which may not always happen in other
        activities.

    b.  In the same spirit as the previous one, there is a very fun game
        for large groups to play that involves setting up many different
        “mini-games” in different rooms of the same building and
        splitting everyone into moderately large teams. Every person in
        a team has to sign up, by rounds, for the mini-game (they can’t
        play the same one more than one in a row), and the result of the
        mini-game determines how many points get added to their team
        scoreboard. The team with the most points at the end wins. The
        idea is to make most mini-games collaborative so that two people
        from each team have to participate. This is usually set up so
        that there is a lot of running and energy going around, and
        people are focused on the mini-games, providing a low-pressure
        social environment for people to meet each other. We did this
        during an HUQT retreat and it worked wonderfully. I still
        remember many of the people in my 15-person team.

    c.  Tour around Boston downtown. I did that the first week that I
        was here and still remember how much fun I had going with my
        roommate around the city looking at the historical buildings.

Returning Leader Application:

1.  Why would you like to return as a FIP leader? (100 words)

2.  How did you positively contribute to the FIP experience in previous
    years? What were your strengths? (150 words)

3.  Given your experiences in previous years, how do you think you could
    improve as a FIP leader? (150 words)

4.  How do you think FIP could improve for next year? (150-200 words)

5.  Given that FIP will continue to be fully in-person for next year,
    please give us three examples of a new activity that you think we
    should include, or a way in which we could expand our current
    in-person programming to use this extra time effectively.

Simulation Questions: The following questions are simulations for what
FIP participants might ask you. In a paragraph that addresses the
student, provide an appropriate response. These questions are required
for both new and returning FIP Leaders and can be a brief paragraph.

1.  "I came with my family, and they're staying at a hotel in Boston
    until the official move-in day. I'm really going to miss them, and
    since I think I know most of the information that will be covered in
    today's panels, is it okay if I miss them to see my family?"

    a.  I understand that your family is very important and that you
        will not get to see them for while, but make your best effort to
        engage fully with all the activities, even if you think you know
        most of the information. The panels are designed by students to
        provide a comprehensive overview of life at Harvard and in the
        United States, and there may be information that you haven’t
        considered yet.

    b.  Also, FIP is a great way to meet some amazing and super
        interesting people and make new friends. For me personally, it
        was these friends that helped me the most when I was feeling
        homesick during the semester.

    c.  That said, if you do decide to visit your family, it is
        important to prioritize your safety and well-being, so be sure
        to communicate your plans with your FIP leader (note: assuming
        it is not me) and make sure that you have a safe way to travel
        to and from the hotel. I recommend sharing your location with
        your parents and taking an Uber since it will drop you at their
        door.

    d.  Overall, while it is okay to miss your family, I would encourage
        you to attend all the FIP events and engage as much as you can.
        It will help you make the most out of the program and your
        Harvard experience as a whole!

2.  "A few other FIP kids and I were going to have a small party in the
    Grays common room tonight with just our FIP friend group. Since I'm
    21, is it okay that I host the party and buy alcohol for the
    gathering?"

    a.  Organizing your own parties and drinking is unfortunately not
        allowed during FIP. You may be 21, but it is highly likely that
        almost everyone else is not, and that is very hard to control.

    b.  You will have more than enough time during the rest of the
        semester to host private parties. I recommend that you try to
        participate in public events as much as you can during the
        program and if you feel there is something that you want but is
        not part of the organized events, come talk to us, and we can
        try and make it work.

3.  “I would prefer to not have roommates from Country X. It’s nothing
    personal – I just don’t think I’m very comfortable with them. Can
    you please have that arranged for me?”

    a.  As FIP leaders, we do not decide who gets to room with whom. The
        university is in charge of that, so do not have much room to
        operate. However, be sure that they make their best effort to
        pair you with suitemates and roommates that are compatible with
        you based on the forms that you filled. They have years of
        experience doing this and typically do a very good job.

    b.  In the future, though, if you feel there is an unavoidable
        problem with your roommates/suitemates that cannot be resolved,
        there are steps that you can take to have people from the dorm
        intervene. Sometimes their talk is enough to resolve the issue
        and some other times they take more drastic measures if they see
        that issues are not resolved, like rearranging the rooms. For
        all this to happen, however, there needs to be a pressing issue,
        it cannot be a general discomfort with someone being from a
        certain country, but something that is significantly impacting
        your day-to-day experience at school.

4.  "After listening to the leader panel on identity, I'm sort of
    confused on the concept of pronouns. Why do they matter?"

    a.  That’s a great question! Pronouns are a fundamental part of how
        we communicate. We use them to refer to other people when not
        mentioning their names. Using correct pronouns when referring to
        someone shows respect for their identity and fosters a more
        inclusive environment.

    b.  Not everyone’s gender identity fits into the binary categories
        of male or female. By using correct pronouns, you are
        acknowledging and affirming the person’s identity. So using the
        wrong pronouns can sometimes be hurtful or invalidating.

    c.  Something important to note is that pronouns are not always
        obvious based on someone’s appearance or name. Someone who
        appears to be male may use they/them pronouns, and someone with
        a traditionally feminine name may use he/him pronouns. This is
        why it is important to ask for someone’s pronouns rather than
        assuming them based on appearance or name.

    d.  The summary is that correct pronouns are a simple but meaningful
        way to respect someone’s identity and foster a more inclusive
        community. If you are unsure of someone’s pronouns, you can
        always ask politely.

Identity Questions: You are not required to answer the following
questions if you feel uncomfortable providing this information.

1.  What nationality/nationalities do you identify with?

    a.  Feel free to include countries you’ve lived in, passports you
        hold or anything that pertains to your international identity.

2.  Indicate your gender identity/preferred pronouns.

3.  Feel free to include any other information about your identity that
    you feel is important for us to know or relevant to your
    application.

Committee Questions: Please indicate what committee you'd be interested
in being a part of. Every leader is assigned to a committee. Your
choices here will have no bearing on the rest of your application.

1.  Please rank the FIP committees according to your preference and
    indicate whether or not you are applying to be a part of a
    committee.

    a.  Logistics (family assignments, coordinating airport pickups,
        phone/bank trips, etc. )

    b.  Social (planning social events)

    c.  Panels (leading interactive discussion-based panels)

    d.  Media & Technology (social media, photography, videography,
        merchandising)

    e.  Wellness and Support (pre-FIP programming, working with student
        offices, promoting well being for all FIP affiliates, etc. )

2.  Committee Preference Ranking

    a.  Logistics

    b.  Social

    c.  Panels

    d.  Media & Tech

    e.  Wellness & Support

3.  Would you like to be a Committee Head, and if so, of which
    Committee?

4.  If you said 'yes' to being a Committee Head, please write a few
    sentences explaining why you're interested in the position, why you
    think you're qualified, and any new ideas you would bring.

    a.  I think the social aspect of FIP is one of the most important
        ones. Many of my friends met their first friends, and some of
        their closest ones, through FIP. As such, I am very interested
        in making the social experience as pleasant as possible for all
        the new students.

    b.  I have experience planning social events in high school (renting
        equipment, buying food/drinks, pubbing ads, managing list) and
        have experience planning events in college as a freshman
        representative for my residential college at Rice University
        (parties and camping trip, that included managing cars, renting
        camping equipment, etc.).

Final Questions

1.  Please describe your summer plans along with relevant dates, however
    tentative.

2.  In late April, there will be a MANDATORY FIP leader training. Which
    of these days would work the best for you? Feel free to select
    multiple days if you are available.

a.  Friday, April 13

b.  Saturday, April 14

c.  Sunday, April 15

3.  Please upload a photo of yourself.

4.  Is there anything else we should know about you as we consider you
    for a FIP leader? Do you have any questions for the Co-Chairs?


First Thought Experiment – Pre-midterm Topics

-   Epidemiology

    -   Epidemiology is the branch of medical science that studies the
        distribution of diseases in human populations and the factors
        determining that distribution, chiefly by the use of statistics.

    -   It started by Dr. John Snow, who traced the source of a cholera
        outbreak in London, and after eliminating the source, realized
        how effective and efficient it was.

-   Evolution

    -   Evolution is biological change of the time.

    -   Usually it is gradually and slow but it can occur very rapidly.

    -   There is not single “proof” of evolution but their is a
        variatety of types of evidence that prove past and present
        evolution.

-   Evolutionary Mismatch

    -   If the environment evolves quickly enough, then the traits that
        we developed, that where once advantageous, are not necessarily
        still positive, and could actual be drawbacks.

-   Heart Disease

    -   Hear Disease describes any kind of problem that the heart can
        have, which there are multiple of, such asartherosclerosis and
        arrhythmia.

    -   Causes:

        -   Smoking

            -   

        -   Sugar

            -   High sugar -> High blood pressure -> heart disease

            -   Sugar trade story

        -   Obesity

            -   

        -   Diabetes

            -   Diabetes 1 is increasing and we don’t know why

Second Thought Experiment – Pathos

-   Do you wanna be alive o see you’re grandchildren?

-   Wouldn’t it suck to house stroke? You’ll leave the rest of the
    family alone. What are we gonna do without you?

-   Look at Jenny. Her mom had a stroke and she lost her way in life.

-   Big pharma and big business wants you to be unhealthy so they can
    sell you more medicine and unhealthy foods.

Pathos


Chinese for Beginners

Why financial aid?

I am privileged to have had access to primary education in Argentina, a
roof over my head and food on my plate every night. I made and make the
best I can from every situation. I’ve gone to science and math
competitions, helped NGOs developing apps to improve the processes and
taught others what I had learned after years of studying programming
online.

Now I want to expand in other directions, like languages, but I am
constrained by my family's resources and the local situation in
Argentina. I believe education is extremely important, but I do not want
to add to my family's financial burden. Inflation is rampant, regularly
exceeding 50% annually. My family's wages lag behind inflation, and
because of this our purchasing power decreases year after year. On top
of that currency depreciation exceeds inflation, so our purchasing power
in US Dollars decreases even faster than in Argentine Pesos.

Buying something from outside of the country is prohibitively expensive
and I, currently a student with not option to work, cannot afford it. I
currently live with my family, so if I decided to take a course, it
would need to be paid by them, and I do not want to burden them with
extra expenses.

Goals

I am passionate about technology, but because of where I was born, I
usually only have exposure to developments taking place in a limited
number of countries / societies. Having been born in Argentina and
knowing Spanish and English, most of the people I am in contact with
belong to Occidental countries.

There is a ton of innovation currently taking place in countries like
China, to which I have very little direct access (mainly through news
articles). I would like to be able to keep up with them and ideally,
contribute. I believe that people from both sides collaborating, and
sharing ideas and progress is the key to success.

To help break down these silos, I would like to understand Chinese.
Moreover, just understanding the language is not enough, and that is why
I would also like to get a better grasp of Chinese culture (traditions,
festivities, relationships, etc.).

I believe this Coursera course is a good starting point.

Loan

Argentina has rampant inflation. I can't be committed to any loan tied
to a foreign currency because even if the interest is 0% annually, it
will feel as 50%+ because of our inflation issue.

Inflation in 2019 was 53.55%, in 2020 it was 42.02% and it is predicted
that it will be 60%+ by the end of 2021.


Disclosure 1

YouTube Channel 2

  Inactive Subscribers 2

Instagram 3

Is he a Good “Guru”? 4

Market 4

  Mediatically Addressing the Market 4

Competitors 4

  Within the Latino Market 4

  Dvdendo 4

  Mi Dinero Mi Futuro / My Money My Future 5

  iBillionare -> Albert 5

  Within Passive Investment Apps 5

  Yotta Savings – Highest risk-free interest rate 5

  Acorns – Best for worry-free savings 5

  Acorns Invest 5

  Acorns Later 5

  Acorns Spend 5

  Robinhood – Best for fee-free trading 5

  Wealthbase – Best for social experience 6

  Betterment – Best for low cost 6

  Stockpile – Best for gifting stocks 6

  Invstr – Best for learning about investing 6

Possible Exits 6

Other interesting links 6

 

Disclosure

-   I am not yet used to thinking in terms of ethnicity or origin to
    classify groups of people as it is not very common in Argentina, but
    I understand it much more common in the US. To better understand
    what it means to target Latinos I read this report by Google which
    explains techniques that have been used and their power.

  https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/future-of-marketing/digital-transformation/us-hispanic-market-digital/

-   I’m not familiar with the culture of US Latinos but I can talk a
    little bit about Argentina, which appears to have a similar savings
    culture according to Carlos in VOA piece.

    -   My story with my parents.

    -   Problems with banks.

    -   Lack of trust and knowledge.

    -   Lack of “money talk”.

    -   https://www.voanews.com/silicon-valley-technology/new-financial-apps-demystify-stocks-and-bonds-latinos

-   OSDE Startup story

    -   Talk about financial planning

    -   I want to learn more about his goals and vision for the future,
        also, slide 6.

    -   Start with Latinos -> Underserved markets -> Easy to start
        platform for the whole market with good brund and trust.

YouTube Channel

-   https://socialblade.com/youtube/channel/UCZ3IANIWHqEKFXWH5MHn9JQ

-   https://www.youtube.com/c/AntonioAlmazan/videos

Inactive Subscribers

A rule of thumb for spotting fake or inactive subscribers is looking at
the views-subscribers ratio and the comments-views ratio. The following
apply to the last 10 videos, a common way of measuring current
performance.

Target Views-Subscribers Ratio: 14%

Real Views-Subscribers Ratio: ~2.4%

Target Comments-Views Ratio: 0.05%

Real Comments-Views Ratio: ~0.013%

[]

Here is another example of a youtuber in the same category and with a
similar audience that having less subscribers has many more views.

[]

Instagram

-   https://socialblade.com/instagram/user/finhabits

-   https://phlanx.com/engagement-calculator

He has a 0.57% engagement rate with ~10K followers with only 57 likes
and 2 comments on average.

[]

Is he a Good “Guru”?

I’ve seen a couple youtube videos and read the topics of quite a few
more and the advice he gives is sound. He doesn’t over-promise, he
doesn’t promote financial gambling and instead focuses on tried and true
methods of investing and growing one’s wealth over time. In that sense
he is very similar to very admired financial influencers as Graham
Stephan.

Market

Mediatically Addressing the Market

The app, the website and all the other marketing materials and
appearances explicitly focus on the Latino community. The target is very
clear.

If you search for “investing app for latinos” on Google the first five
results are articles about Finhabits or their own website.

Competitors

Within the Latino Market

Dvdendo

-   https://www.dvdendo.com/

Android reviews say the app is a scam and that why do not pay. May be a
problem with the Android app itself because they have overall very good
reviews on iOS.

Is also present in Univision and Telemundo. Exactly same goal and very
similar pricing structure, but depending on slide 6, may have different
end goals.

Mi Dinero Mi Futuro / My Money My Future

Website does not work. The one that does is focused on minorities and
African Americans very explicitly. Too strong of a position IMO.

iBillionare -> Albert

Started for Latinos, but joined Albert, a company dedicated to long-term
financial planning, managing not only investments, but also income and
spending. MIGHT BE BIGGEST COMPETITOR.

Within Passive Investment Apps

-   https://www.bankrate.com/investing/best-investment-apps/

Yotta Savings – Highest risk-free interest rate

-   https://www.withyotta.com/

It does not invest in stocks, it just gives slightly more returns than
banks, but it gamifies the whole experience by using a weekly lottery to
incentivize savings.

Acorns – Best for worry-free savings

MIGHT BE BIGGEST COMPETITOR TOGETHER WITH ALBERT.

Acorns Invest

Acorns rounds you purchases upwards and invests the extra cents in ETFs.
$1 per month.

Acorns Later

It allows you to create a traditional IRA, Roth or SEP within the app.
You can also roll over an existing 401k or IRA to Acorns. An additional
$1 per month.

Acorns Spend

Provides a FDIC-protected checking account with a debit card, among
other things. Additional $1 per month.

Robinhood – Best for fee-free trading

Not the target, but has the option to acquire ETFs, which is the
backbone of Finhabits. The issue here is that it is not targeted towards
Latinos and it is also not geared towards long term financial planning,
so users have to know that ETFs are a good option and what they mean and
how they work. They do provide articles to learn about these types of
financial tools, but it is not what is mainly advertised as.

https://learn.robinhood.com/articles/2thMEq9tQ9S5V3OipJYbsr/what-is-a-401k-plan/

It does not look like the app funds can then be transferred into a
tax-advantaged account.

~~Wealthbase – Best for social experience~~

Betterment – Best for low cost

Provides investment portfolio recommendations based on personal goals
(safety net, retirement, etc.) and risk tolerance at a very affordable
price of 0.25% of managed assets.

Stockpile – Best for gifting stocks

It allows you to buy fractional shares, which lowers the barrier to
entry and has an easy system for gifting stocks, making it easier to
introduce children and low income individuals to investing. $0.99 per
trade, no monthly fee.

Invstr – Best for learning about investing

Mixes a community with paper accounts with real accounts but does not
seem to be focused on long term goals. $0.99 per fractional trade and
$2.99 per whole stock trade.

Possible Exits

-   Sell to BlackRock, Vanguard or similar to acquire a platform and
    brand name to help onboard more Latino users. Will reduce internal
    costs because they can direct users to their own products using
    their existing structure.

-   Sell to another company like Albert, that has the same goal, but is
    strictly pointed towards a certain group.

-   Start with Latinos -> Underserved markets -> Easy to start platform
    for the whole market with good brund and trust -> Go public?

Other interesting links

-   https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/future-of-marketing/digital-transformation/us-hispanic-market-digital/

-   https://www.cnbc.com/2019/07/11/the-latino-community-is-in-a-retirement-crisis.html


Frida Ruiz Shimanovitch

fridaruizsh@gmail.com | linkedin.com/in/frida-ruiz-shimanovitch

+54 9 11 3119-1014 | Buenos Aires, Argentina

EDUCATION

University of Buenos Aires – College of Exact Sciences Buenos Aires,
Argentina

Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Expected Graduation: December
2025

Escuela ORT Belgrano Buenos Aires, Argentina

High School Diploma, Information and Communication Technologies Track
March 2014 – December 2019

GPA: 86.9 / 100

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Recyco Buenos Aires, Argentina

Co-Founder, Technical & Strategy January 2020 – Present

-   Wrote sales collateral and presented sales deck to 10 companies,
    including Nestlé and Unilever.

-   Designed technical architecture of the 5 software components
    required for the MVP: 3 apps (React Native), 1 management dashboard
    (Vue), 1 monolithic server (Nest).

-   Managed 2 part-time programmers through the development process.

-   Started negotiations with clients for contracts worth $200k+ in ARR.

Romulus Capital / Takeoff Capital Remote / Boston, Massachusetts

Associate October 2020 – August 2021

-   Sourced & led due diligence for 4 companies, which led $150k+ worth
    of investments

-   Developed sourcing and deal management setup (Notion + Streak +
    Custom Chrome Extension) using TypeScript, React and Nest.

-   Researched strategies employed by 2 top performing companies in the
    ConTech & PropTech space and presented them to the whole firm.

Reindi Buenos Aires, Argentina

Product Manager & Developer October 2019 – August 2021

-   Outlined work plans, determined resources and generated initial
    budgets as part of project scope determination for the development
    of a healthcare documents platform on the Ethereum blockchain.

-   Managed scheduling for 3 people and educated personnel on
    appropriate development methods to meet quality standards.

-   Produced reports each week, updating senior leaders on progress and
    roadblocks.

Rutd Houston, Texas

Interim CTO January 2021 – August 2021

-   Designed technical architecture comprised of an app (React Native),
    a management dashboard (Vue) and a monolithic server (Nest).

-   Performed customer interviews and collaborated with the CEO to
    narrow down the scope of the MVP and determine the company strategy.

-   Won first place and $27.5k price in the Rice Napier Launch
    Challenge.

Satellogic Buenos Aires, Argentina

Software Engineering Intern July 2018 – December 2018

-   Used Vue, Electron and Python (OpenCV) to create processing software
    for satellite imagery.

-   Developed Linux drivers (C++) for infrared camera onboard ÑuSat
    satellite.

LEADERSHIP & INVOLVEMENT

Rice New Energy Fund Houston, Texas

Co-Founder, Head of Operations & Diversified Team Analyst September 2021
– Present

-   Contacted and followed up with potential investors, organized the
    recruitment process for our first analysts, and established the
    organization’s mission, vision, and strategy.

-   Helped raise $150k in initial capital from City bankers during the
    Fall semester.

SKILLS & INTERESTS

Skills: Full Stack Web Development (HTML, CSS, JS/TS, Bootstrap,
Wordpress), App Development (React Native), Chrome Extension
Development, Algorithmic Programming (C++), Project Management (Notion),
SQL, Procore Certified (Student), Management Skills and Leadership. |
Languages: Spanish – Native, Chinese – Basic

Interests: AlgoRave (music with code), Cyber Security, Bass, Skating,
Vegan Food, Software for Social Good.


Why do you want to study your chosen major at Georgia Tech, and what
opportunities at Georgia Tech will prepare you in that field after
graduation?

Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
across an article about the application of a text manipulation algorithm
for analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

In the past few years I have created several programs, but its was
through the development of a navigation app for the blind community and
a health reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
developed a passion for applying computer science to health for the
benefit of society.

Georgia Tech’s Computer Science Modeling & Simulations thread offers and
incredible opportunity to combine CS with other areas of knowledge,
including biology and chemistry. The Department of Biomedical
Engineering program will let me study in depth the relationship between
medical solutions and engineering. I hope to intern with researchers
like Dr. Woon-Hong Yeo to work on unobtrusive brain-machine interfaces.

I’m also excited by the opportunity to conduct independent research in
the Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience through its
Undergraduate Research Scholars program.

Georgia Tech can provide me with the tools necessary to become an
entrepreneur working on socially-minded tech through the Innovation &
Entrepreneurship program. As part of this, I would like to participate
in CREATE-X Startup Launch.


Good afternoon Paul,

I am Iñaki Arango, an international student from Argentina. We worked
together on my financial aid appeal.

I am writing to you with a question. I was considering taking a gap year
in view of the coronavirus situation, to prepare me better for my time
at Rice, and to allow me to keep working in my startup. Before
submitting the Gap Year Request Letter I wanted to know if the same
financial aid considerations that were taken this year regarding my
family’s ability to pay for my degree will be also taken next year.

I hope this email finds you well, and that you and your family are
healthy and safe during these uncertain times.

Best regards,

Iñaki

Gap Year Letter

Rev. 1

I was looking forward to being on campus in the Fall, but the current
situation makes it very difficult to do so. The U.S. Embassy in
Argentina is not giving out visas, and does not accept expedited
appointment requests. That aside, we are in the 110^(th) day of strict
quarantine, without being allowed to leave our homes. Considering these
circumstances and the rigorous health safety requirements for campus
residents, I have decided to apply for a gap year.

During this gap year I will continue to pursue my education and
professional development. I graduated from high school last December and
since January, I’ve been working with a partner on a recycling startup
called Recyco. We are creating a software platform that helps businesses
track the performance of their recycling initiatives and manage their
plastic supply chain while providing incentives to the general
population to bring their plastics to dedicated treatment plants. We
held meetings with prospective clients early on and prepared for a
public launch in March but Covid struck and the ensuing quarantine
forced us to postpone our plans. My original intent was to wrap up
software development by mid year, leave the startup in my partner’s
hands, and move to Houston. In the present situation, I have decided to
take an active role in the management of the startup as we move into
operations and to lead deployment with corporate clients. I believe this
experience will be very valuable to becoming a technology entrepreneur.

In parallel, given that I cannot leave my house, I have been taking
online courses in Software Architecture and Finance through edX and the
Corporate Finance Institute to improve my understanding of the inner
workings of companies and to help me operate my startup. Going forward I
plan to take additional courses to explore fields that I might pursue at
Rice. At the top of my list are Andrew Ng’s course in Machine Learning
and Johns Hopkins’ eight-course Genomic Data Science Specialization.

To summarize, I believe this year will help me gain hands-on experience
in managing a company and become a better entrepreneur. The courses I
will be taking will help me to narrow down my interests and prepare me
to make the best of my four years at Rice.

I look forward to your approval as I remain more committed than ever to
becoming a member of the class of 2025.


When I was in third grade, I underwent MRIs, IQ, and puzzle tests, among
other evaluations because I cried every day. Over the next five years, I
went to a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and an educational psychologist
every week until my condition was resolved. Thus, early on I grew a
strong sense that problems are a part of life, they are not the final
statement about me or my future, and it is entirely possible to carry on
and succeed.

Thanks to this mindset, at age 13 I was able to accept the limitations
of wearing a plastic vest suddenly imposed by my scoliosis diagnosis
that ruled out running, playing sports, and riding a bike. I was
determined to get my back pain under control, so after researching
options, I started going to the gym five days a week.

Unfortunately, my spine eventually started pressing into my lungs. I had
to undergo spinal fusion surgery, which meant I wouldn’t be able to
exercise for a year and would lose flexibility for life. During the
first month, I recovered from not moving at all to slowly getting up and
walking. Determined to resume normal life, I adopted an intensive
swimming routine, and after 10 months I could carry out all daily
activities.

I approach life as if the cards I have been dealt are the cards I wanted
all along. I have developed a mentality of taking in any obstacle,
dealing with it, and then getting down to reaching my goals.

It is this mentality that has let me go to college, eventually transfer
to Harvard, a


Describe how you have overcome a personal or professional challenge. How
has this prepared you for the Goldman Sachs Possibilities Summits
program?
During my first two years of college, I navigated the challenge of
managing a growing startup in my home country while maintaining strong
academic performance. The time zone differences and distance
necessitated exceptional time management and efficient work processes.

I learned to delegate tasks effectively, communicate clearly, and
prioritize my responsibilities diligently, ensuring both my educational
commitments and business responsibilities received the attention they
required. This experience not only honed my organizational and
leadership skills but also taught me the importance of resilience and
adaptability in high-pressure situations.

These skills are directly transferable to the Goldman Sachs
Possibilities Summits program, where I anticipate multiple weeks packed
with events. I am now better equipped to navigate the program’s demands,
actively participate in its networking and skill-building opportunities,
and contribute meaningfully to the diverse community at Goldman Sachs.
This challenge has undoubtedly prepared me to thrive in the
Possibilities Summits program.


A quien corresponda,

Me comunico para autorizar a que la Escuela Técnica Ort Nº2 libere mi
información al proveedor de verificaciones de antecedentes laborales
"HireRight".

Nombre completo: Iñaki Arango

DNI: 43875528

Fecha de nacimiento: 6 de Febrero del 2002

De ser necesario que provea más información, no duden en consultarme.

Atentamente,

Iñaki Arango


Please briefly elaborate on one of your extracurricular activities or
work experiences. (150 word limit)

I work as a developer and project manager for a startup called Reindi.
Last July, the CEO reached out to me because of my familiarity with a
technology called “blockchain”. The startup is a response to his
personal predicament; two of his children are disabled and it has been
difficult for him to navigate the network of healthcare insurers, manage
health records, and receive reimbursements for treatment. I was touched
by his story and decided to join his effort.

Together we outlined a blockchain-based document storage solution and I
recruited a team to work on the project. We have since been working hard
to bring this solution to life. We have built a platform that allows
doctors to send treatment information directly and securely to clinics
and to streamline reimbursements, and are in talks to become a partner
of the national Health Information Bus initiative.

Harvard has long recognized the importance of student body diversity of
all kinds. We welcome you to write about distinctive aspects of your
background, personal development or the intellectual interests you might
bring to your Harvard classmates.

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled aside and was asked to explain the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


Why do you want to join China Forum? (~250 words) *

Please detail relevant skills and experiences and describe what you hope
to get out of HCCF this year. Think broadly about what
skills/experiences might be relevant to effective participation in HCCF;
we certainly want to hear about prior engagement with China and
conference-planning experience, but do include anything else you think
might be relevant!

I started learning Chinese last year to try and better understand
Chinese culture. It's a country that has done what many consider
impossible. During the last half-century, it has grown at an incredible
pace and significantly improved the quality of life of millions of
people.

I believe that by helping organize the conference, I can deepen my
understanding not only of the culture but also of the state of internal
politics, development, and relationships with other countries.

The country's internal development is especially interesting to me for
two reasons:

-   Argentina (my country) is in an incredibly dire economic situation.
    We just hit 100% annual inflation (for comparison the US usually has
    around 3%). I want to learn from other countries that have
    successfully pulled a lot of people out of poverty in a short amount
    of time to be able to eventually contribute to my country.

-   Startups and tech companies have had a huge impact on China's
    development and many companies, like ByteDance, Baidu, Alibaba, and
    Tencent have shaped a big portion of the daily life of people in
    China

I don't have any conference planning experience but I have experience
running a startup and have worked at VC firms for more than a year, so I
have some experience identifying the strengths/weaknesses in companies.

Since I just transferred from another school, one big thing I am looking
for is community. I hope to find a tight-knit group where I can meet
people and make new friends :) . As I mentioned before, this would also
be a great opportunity to learn about China as a country and Chinese as
a language.

Why are you interested in U.S.–China relations? (~150 words) *

What are some issues you care about the most? If applicable, what role
do you think HCCF can play in working toward solutions? There are no
wrong answers here. We're just hoping to get a picture of how you see
your/HCCF's/Harvard's role in a quickly-evolving U.S.-China situation.

I think both countries have amazing innovation engines but many times
they don't collaborate with each other and are very protective of the
technology they produce.

Given how important their roles are in the global economy and the fact
that they will inevitably have to interface with each other, I would
like to see a future where people from both countries often work in
solving problems together.

I believe one big problem is hostility, and the notion that the other
country is an enemy, or is "out there to get you". HCCF lowers the
barriers for most people to access the other's perspective. If people
from one country listen to and get to meet people from the other country
it will be clear that they are not the enemy, and that we in fact share
a lot of things in common.

Committee Elaboration (~150 words) *

Rank up to three (3) committees that you are interested in. Why are you
interested in / how are you qualified for those committees?

Before you answer this question, please read our application info packet
[linked below] to find committee descriptions.

1.  (preferred) Ventures:

2.  I would like to work on organizing the pitch competition and helping
    prepare the VC panels.

3.  I think my startup/VC experience would be helpful to find people for
    the startup panel and for finding the gem pitch applications for the
    competition that would go on to present during the event.

4.  Finance:

5.  I am looking to learn more about the financing of companies and
    events. I am especially interested in the bookkeeping aspect of HCCF
    finance.

6.  I have some experience with Excel modeling but am open to learning
    all the tools that the team uses.


As a Seminar Leader, your responsibilities will include:

1. Teaching a 5-6 day seminar (including both asynchronous and
synchronous portions)

2. Hosting office hours

2. Serving as House Leader and/or leading extracurricular activities

Why are you interested in being a seminar leader at HSYLC? (150 word
limit)

a

List possible topic(s) that you plan to teach at HSYLC. Note: these are
not binding. (50 word limit)

w

Write the title and course description of the seminar you would be most
interested in teaching. (250 word limit)

d

As instructional staff, you will be planning and teaching an hour-long
seminar to two cohorts of students over 5-6 days. Past seminars have
included topics ranging from Astrophysics to Mental Health. See examples
here: go.hauscr.org/examples

d

Describe yourself as a teacher. Provide a brief walkthrough of how you
would approach your first in-person lesson. (150 word limit)

w

How do you see yourself contributing to the HSYLC community outside of
your seminar?

d


Why do you want to become a teacher at HTLC? What qualities/experiences
do you have that will make you a good fit as a teacher? (~200 words)

Teachers play a crucial role in shaping our lives, and I am no
exception. Without their guidance, I would not be where I am today. As a
result, I have a strong desire to give back and help others achieve
their full potential. My experience as a trainer assistant in the
Science Olympiads and Informatics Olympiads sparked my passion for
teaching and learning. It taught me the value of breaking down complex
topics into simpler concepts to help students better understand and
apply them.

My training as an OWeek Advisor and Peer Academic Advisor at Rice
University provided me with the skills necessary to connect with
students on a deeper level. I understand the importance of creating a
supportive and inclusive environment that fosters growth and learning.
These experiences have made me more patient, empathetic, and
understanding of different perspectives.

Becoming a teacher at HTLC is the perfect opportunity for me to continue
my passion for teaching and to make a meaningful impact on the lives of
young students. I am excited about the prospect of facilitating
discussions on sensitive and controversial topics, challenging students
to think critically, and helping them develop the skills they need to
succeed. I believe that my experience, skills, and passion make me a
strong fit for this role, and I am committed to making a positive
difference in the lives of my students.

If you have previous teaching experience, please elaborate here.
(~100-200 words)

- In high school, after participating in the Science Olympiads and the
Informatics Olympiads, I gave lectures for the younger students one
level below on physics (dynamics, kinematics), programming (C++, search
algorithms, graph algorithms), and chemistry (balancing equations).

- During COVID-19 quarantine, I have lectures on web development for
older people (40+ age range) since they wanted to use their newly found
time to develop a new useful skill. For the people that were a bit more
knowledgeable in technology I gave advanced lectures on web architecture
and modular backend design.

- While I worked at Romulus Capital during my gap year, I designed the
introductory material for new interns that explained how the Venture
Capital industry worked, what we look for in a potential investment, and
how the inner processes of the firm worked.

- At Rice I trained to be a Peer Academic Advisor, which basically
consisted in learning on the rules regarding graduation requirements,
recommended classes, and study tips to prepare new students for college
academic life, and to provide continuing support for sophomores and
upperclassmen.

- At Recyco (Argentinian startup) I onboarded and trained new engineers
in our software architecture.

- While at Harvard, I provided tutoring for friends that needed help in
Probability/Statistics.

Please outline a lecture/workshop (typically a 45 minute lecture) you
would be interested in presenting during the conference. Past lectures
have included networking, public speaking, startups 101, and conflict
resolution. (~100-200 words)

I went over the word limit for the sake of detail, but if you are
lacking time, feel free to skip over the examples list, since the rest
of the text will give the general idea of the lecture.

I would be excited to present a lecture on the fascinating topic of
probability and statistics and how they impact our daily lives. The
lecture would begin by providing a brief overview of the foundational
elements of probability theory, including key concepts such as
independent events, conditional probability, and Bayes' theorem.

We would go over the importance of appropriate visualizations, and how
they can help us make better sense of the data.

Then, we would delve into real-world applications of probability and
statistics that many people encounter on a regular basis, but may not
realize the underlying principles at work.

Some examples may include:

- Probability in games of chance: Showcasing the probabilities involved
in games such as rolling dice, flipping coins, and drawing cards. It
could be a fun visual way of introducing them to the basic concepts.

- Probability in sports: Sports are something that likely a lot of
students will be interested in. We could discuss how statistics are used
to evaluate the players and make strategic decisions in games.

- Medical statistics: We can discuss how researchers use statistical
analysis to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment, identify risk
factors for diseases, and make predictions about patients' outcomes. We
can also talk about how information collected from real-world samples
can be used to model the future spread of disease.

- Social media and big data: We can discuss how companies use
information collected about users to personalize ads, recommends
products/videos/books, and predict user behavior.

- Other examples could include weather forecasting and financial
modeling.

Providing a wide range of applications and examples increases the
chances that every student will find at least one interesting, and will
remain reneged throughout the lecture.

We would discuss how probability and statistics help us make informed
decisions and predictions, and how they play a crucial role in many
industries and fields. I would aim to make the content accessible to a
general audience, while also providing external resources for an
interested audience with a more technical background. Overall, my goal
would be to share my passion for probability and statistics and
demonstrate the practical relevance of this exciting field.

Please outline an extracurricular activity you would be interested in
leading. These are more hands-on/interactive and are spread out
throughout the week (each session is usually 45 minutes). Past
extracurriculars have included hip hop, drama, taekwondo, and juggling.
(~100-200 words)

- A great way to bring people together is by making them collaborate
toward a common goal. Even better if they get to eat the common goal. We
did a Sushi-making Social for a school club and it went great. It was
also a great opportunity for older and younger people to connect, which
may not always happen in other activities.

- In the same spirit as the previous one, there is a very fun game for
large groups to play that involves setting up many different
“mini-games” in different rooms of the same building and splitting
everyone into moderately large teams. Every person in a team has to sign
up, by rounds, for the mini-game (they can’t play the same one more than
once in a row), and the result of the mini-game determines how many
points get added to their team scoreboard. The team with the most points
at the end wins. The idea is to make most mini-games collaborative so
that two people from each team have to participate. This is usually set
up so that there is a lot of running and energy going around, and people
are focused on the mini-games, providing a low-pressure social
environment for people to meet each other. We did this during a club
retreat and it worked wonderfully. I still remember many of the people
in my 15-person team.

At HTLC, we lead discussion groups with the high schoolers that might
touch on sensitive or controversial topics. How do you see yourself
facilitating sensitive discussion among students with different
opinions?

Facilitating discussions about sensitive or controversial topics can be
challenging, especially when students have different opinions. However,
I believe that it's important to create a safe and respectful
environment where students feel comfortable sharing their perspectives
and engaging in meaningful dialogue.

To achieve this, I would start by setting clear ground rules for the
discussion, such as respecting each other's opinions, avoiding personal
attacks, and actively listening to others. I would also encourage
students to share their own experiences and perspectives, rather than
trying to persuade others to agree with them.

In addition, I would make sure to acknowledge and validate different
viewpoints, even if I don't personally agree with them. By doing so, I
hope to foster a culture of open-mindedness and understanding, where
students can learn from each other and grow in their understanding of
complex issues.

Finally, I would be open and flexible in my approach, adapting to the
needs and dynamics of the particular group of students I'm working with.
Whether that means providing additional resources or adjusting the
discussion format, I would do my best to ensure that everyone feels
heard and respected.

Fun: If you could spend a free day in Taipei, Taiwan, what would you do?

If I had a free day in Taipei, Taiwan, I would definitely make time to
visit two iconic landmarks - the Chiang Kai-Shek Memorial Hall and the
Taipei 101 building.

What attracts me the most about the Memorial Hall estate is the
landscaped gardens around it. I am a huge fan of organized gardens this
is an incredible (and vast) example of them. Besides exploring the
gardens, I would love to admire the magnitude and incredible
architecture of the Memorial Hall itself.

I would also like to visit the Taipei 101 building, one of the tallest
skyscrapers in the world. What fascinates me most about this building is
its unique design, particularly the large stabilizer ball that is
visible at the top of the building. I find it super interesting that the
designers chose to turn the stabilizer mass, which could have been an
eyesore, and is typically hidden away in these sorts of buildings, into
a creative public-facing feature, and went all the way to creating a
mascot after it. I would love to see the golden ball up close and take
in the stunning views of the city from the top of the building.

Overall, a day spent visiting these two landmarks would be an amazing
and unforgettable experience.


Financial Aid

1.  Does financial aid cover me if I petition for an extra semester to
    meet A.B. or S.B. requirements?

    a.  On page 29 of the Handbook, it says. “Ordinarily, students in an
        additional term are not eligible for College housing or
        financial aid.” Since it does not mention transfer students, I
        am not sure if this applies to me.

2.  From what I understand from the financial aid letter, 100% of billed
    university expenses are covered. Is this correct?

3.  According to page 102 of the Handbook, scholarships may be used to
    cover the term-time work expectation. Is it possible to also cover
    the expectation with an external job (e.g., salary from a summer
    job)?

4.  Do I have to pay tuition during a Leave of Absence if I petition for
    it before the term starts? If so, is it covered by my financial aid
    package? (Handbook p. 46)

5.  Is there some sort of guarantee that the same level of aid will be
    maintained until I graduate if my family’s circumstance does not
    change substantially? If so, for how many terms would this apply?

6.  Is financial aid available for the Harvard Summer School?

Health Insurance

1.  I understand that according to Massachusetts regulations, I am not
    allowed to waive Harvard’s health insurance (Handbook p.91), but am
    I allowed to purchase additional insurance from another provider on
    top of the HUSHP. Is this correct?

    a.  Additionally, is vision insurance covered under the HUSHP?

2.  Is there a website or document I could read containing more
    information about the copay costs associated with the HUSHP?

3.  Does the health insurance fee in my financial aid documents include
    the HUSHP dental coverage add-on (Handbook p. 92) or would I have to
    pay that separately?

4.  Am I required to get a fourth COVID shot (second booster) before
    arriving on campus?

    a.  If so, that might pose a problem since I got my first booster a
        couple of weeks ago and, to my understanding, one needs to wait
        a couple of months before being able to get another booster
        shot.

Credit Transfer

1.  Would it be possible to get a transfer credit assessment before June
    1st?

2.  Do the classes that transfer still hold a letter grade or will they
    be deemed “Satisfactory”, essentially resetting my GPA?

3.  Below are two sections of the Handbook touching on petitioning for a
    transfer term. Do they mean that I can petition for an “additional
    term” plus an “extra transfer term” or that I can overall just
    petition for one more term besides the 6 allotted terms (3 years)?

    a.  “[...] transfer students may petition the Administrative Board
        for an “extra transfer term” in addition to the allotted number
        of terms they were granted on admission.” (Handbook p.19)

    b.  “Under no circumstances will the Administrative Board grant a
        student permission for more than one additional term.”
        (Handbook p. 29)

Housing

1.  By when would I be assigned a House?

Academic Advice & Questions

1.  Is there an academic advisor I can speak with to familiarize myself
    with the available resources to help me choose my major and classes
    for next semester, and ideate a 4-year plan?

    a.  I did find the Student Handbook and Fields of Concentration
        book, but perhaps there is a more “big picture” resource that
        can highlight the important required components of a 4-year plan
        at Harvard.

2.  Will I be able to participate in a Freshman Seminar (Handbook p.
    22)?

3.  Do I have to pay extra tuition if I take cross-registered courses at
    MIT or HBS? Is that extra tuition covered by my scholarship?

4.  Who should I talk to before choosing between Honors and non-Honors
    programs?

5.  Do I have to take Harvard’s Math Placement Test, and if so, when?
    Would I be able to skip linear algebra (S-21B) or multivariable
    calculus (S-21A) if I self-teach it over the summer?

6.  Where could I get more information about language citations
    (including recommendations on whether that is something I should do
    as a transfer student)? (Handbook p.18)

7.  Where could I get more information about studying abroad (including
    recommendations on whether that is something I should do as a
    transfer student)? (Handbook p.17)

8.  Is attendance mandatory for all courses?

9.  Does the CS or Math department have a “proof-writing requirement”
    for classes that require proofs? If so, could I waive that
    requirement by presenting the syllabus and work produced for
    RICE:COMP182 “Algorithmic Thinking”?

10. Would I be eligible to take Harvard College summer courses this
    Summer and would I be accepted credit from Rice’s Summer courses for
    Summer 2022?

General Requirements

1.  Double counting: Can a class count towards multiple general
    requirements? For example, could my “First-Year Writing Seminar:
    Dilemmas of Society” satisfy the writing and the humanities
    distribution requirement at the same time?

2.  Language study:

    a.  My high school in Argentina (Escuela Técnica ORT Belgrano)
        followed the Argentinian National Curriculum. Because of this,
        every class except “English” was taught in Spanish. Does that
        satisfy the College’s language requirement or would I have to
        take a second Chinese class to satisfy the requirement?

        i.  “If you attended a high school outside of the United States
            where the primary language of instruction was not English,
            this may also satisfy our language requirement.”

    b.  Alternatively, would it be enough to present proof of an 800
        score on the Spanish SAT Subject Test? (Handbook p. 14)

3.  Distribution requirements:

    a.  Arts and Humanities: Does RICE:FWIS148 satisfy this requirement?

    b.  Social Sciences: Does RICE:ECON100 satisfy this requirement?

    c.  Science and Engineering and Applied Sciences: Does RICE:COMP182
        satisfy this requirement?

4.  Writing requirement:

    a.  Could RICE:FWIS148 “First-Year Writing Seminar: Dilemmas of
        Society” satisfy this requirement? I reviewed this webpage
        describing the structure and deliverables of “Expository Writing
        20”, and FWIS had a very similar structure. Would the collection
        of all my graded papers (around 20 pages excluding sources and
        cover) from the class be an acceptable submission for review by
        the Harvard College Writing Program? (Handbook p. 14)

        i.  My FWIS professor, Asa Stahl, is the one that wrote one of
            my recommendation letters.

        ii. I do have to note that my first two papers do not have the
            same quality as the last one. I improved my writing and
            revision skills throughout the semester so my last paper is
            the most representative of my current writing skills.


Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled aside and was asked to explain the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


First Prompt

First, please answer the following question in no more than 250 words:

In any analysis of an author’s argument, you will need to be able to
attend closely to important moments of evidence, explain them in your
own words, and also explain their meaning to the larger argument. In
addition to your full essay about Sandel’s argument that you will enter
into the second text box below, in this first text box please explain
and analyze the following key sentence from Sandel’s argument:

“Meritocracy today functions less as an alternative to inequality than
as its primary justification." (4)

Meritocracy, Sandel claims, is built on the argument that “if everyone
starts out with an equal chance, then those who succeed deserve the
rewards their talents bring” (4). Although meritocracy sounds ideal for
American society because it shares its values–it rewards talent and hard
work–in practice it has its downsides. Meritocratic thinking leads
people to believe that the currently successful deserve to be where they
are, as do the unsuccessful (Sandel 4).

Current American society is plagued with inequality, including access to
health and education. As a response to workers angry about the
increasing inequality and the meager wages when compared to the
country's elite, the government has pushed college as a vehicle for
social mobility in the modern economy but has not addressed the root
causes of inequality (Sandel 7).

The government in power over the last three decades has implemented
programs that make it easier to access a college education (Sandel 7),
but in the process, it have simultaneously neglected the essential
trades and service jobs that do not require a college education, as well
as the lower class, that will not be able to attend, even with
government programs.

By offering the middle class a way to climb up the ladder but failing to
address the wages and dignity of non-college-educated workers, and
driving the meritocratic narrative that everyone deserves to be where
they currently are, they have created a vicious cycle that widens the
gap between the credentialed and the non-credentialed and keeps
inequality high.

Sandel, Michael J. “How Meritocracy Fuels Inequality—Part I The Tyranny
of Merit: An

Overview.” American Journal of Law and Equality, vol. 1, 2021, pp. 4–14,

https://doi.org/10.1162/ajle_a_00024. Accessed 15 May 2022.

Second Prompt

Sandel’s Argument

Thesis

Meritocracy: A social system where people compete for “jobs and social
roles based on their own merits” (Sandel 4).

Meritocratic hubris: The arrogance stemming from the meritocratic
narrative about self-determination (Sandel 5). People who have become
successful in a society that claims to be meritocratic will see their
success as purely their own and consequently look down on those less
successful than themselves.

Working-class jobs: Manual labor, service industry, and clerical jobs
(Sandel 10).

Essential workers: The backbone workers that Sandel claims are being
treated unfairly by not giving them enough respect and decent pay
(Sandel 12).

Sandel claims that even though a meritocracy, in theory, would reduce
inequality and bring about a more egalitarian society, because of the
current socio-economic conformation of the Unites States, the
meritocratic narrative does more to preserve inequality than it does to
get rid of it. As an alternative he proposes reconfiguring the economy
so that pay and respect are in line with what he claims society actually
values.

My Thesis

Main Points

Conclusion

Essay

Growing up we were told that our talent and hard work would determine
our success; that our potential had no bounds if we were willing to put
in the effort. In his essay, “How Meritocracy Fuels Inequality—Part I
The Tyranny of Merit: An Overview”, Michael J. Sandel battles that
notion and claims that our society, even though it claims to be
meritocratic, does more to preserve inequality than it does to get rid
of it. This is caused, he holds, by the current socio-economic
conformation of the United States. As an alternative, he proposes
reconfiguring the economy so that pay and respect are in line with what
he claims society actually values.

While Sandel makes good arguments about the nature of meritocracy in
America, the logic he uses to analyze his data and draw conclusions has
gaps and sometimes appears to be at odds with his postulates or his
previous statements. He also seems too ingrained in the current workings
of society to be to provide innovative long-term solutions for a
capitalistic America.

In the beginning, Sandel introduces the concept of “meritocratic hubris”
(5). He defines it as arrogance stemming from the meritocratic narrative
about self-determination. People who have become successful in a society
that claims to be meritocratic will see their success as purely their
own and consequently look down on those less successful than themselves.

He claims that because of it, America’s elite, who are largely
college-educated, have over-valorized college degrees and by failing to
connect with people, they have missed the “hubris [...] and the harsh
judgment” a meritocracy imposes on those who have not gone to college
(Sandel 7). On page 9, he claims that the mobility vehicle proposed by
elites as a solution cannot compensate for inequality, but fails to
provide a reason for which this is true. He explains how college
provides a disproportionate improvement in quality of life and income
for those students that come from working-class families when compared
to students from rich families (Sandel 10). If this were the case, then
it would stand to reason that if somehow college was accessible to all,
then the people in low-income families will increase their quality of
life faster than the high-income students will, producing a future
society where the gap between the high-income and the low-income
families is much lower.

As an alternative to a strong push for college education, Sandel
maintains that “we should focus less on arming people for meritocratic
competition and more on affirming the dignity of work” (9). While in a
complete vacuum, this proposal seems to make sense, he fails to connect
it with the global economic context in which the United States resides.
A context that he acknowledges when talking about job outsourcing
(Sandel 7).

The United States enjoys very high standards of living when compared to
the rest of the world. It becomes especially apparent with working-class
jobs (manual labor, service industry, and clerical jobs (Sandel 10)),
which even though are not paid as well as professional jobs, they are
still paid considerably more than in other countries. The notion that a
grocery store bagger in India or Argentina could purchase a car or an
iPhone is ridiculous but seen every day in America.

Sandel fails to acknowledge that the reason why the standard of living
is so high in the US is that it is an industrialized country that
exports all sorts of advanced goods and services. These industries are
made possible by millions of college-educated individuals that have
developed the intelectual property behind these items.

While he asserts that America should “invest far more in forms of
learning that most people rely upon to prepare themselves for the world
of work” (Sandel 10), like state and community colleges, he ultimately
believes that the solution is an interventionist and protectionist
political agenda that decreases the role finance has in the economy,
subsidizes low-paid jobs and reconfigures the tax structure so that it
expresses “society’s judgment” of what work is more valuable (Sandel
14).

Hoever, Sandel does not explain why it is that society’s judgement is
not currently at play in today’s wages. In America’s capitalistic
society, every single memeber sets the bar of which price they are
willing to pay for each product or service. By doing that, they have
essentialy set the wage of the individuals that produce the goods.

When hinting at unfariness on behalf big corporations “outsourcing [...]
jobs to low-wage countries” (Sandel 7) he omits that this behaviour goes
in line with an egalitarian society and meritocratic belief.

If a manager at a tech company was hiring programmers and out of his two
options, one of which charges $10 per hour and other one $5, he chose
the more expensive option, people would accuse him of nepotism or
discrimination. Following the basis of an egalitarian society Sandel put
forward, the cheaper programmer should be chosen since he is able to
produce the same output at a much lower cost. Now, if the same situation
occurs but the more expensive programer is American while the cheaper
one is Indian, why should the cheaper one not be chosen? Sandel
contradicts himself by stating that people should be able to “compete
for desirable jobs [...] based on their own merits” but then hinting
that outsourcing of jobs to low-wage countries is unfair and encouraging
domestic manufacturing (Sandel 13).

His proposal for improving the country goes against the meritocratic
beliefs he puts forward in the introduction of his essay and also fails
to adapt to an extremely capitalistic society that looks down on any
kind of government intervention, especially if it means raising taxes.
Throughout his paper Sandel presents relevant information about the
United States but does not fully connect it with American beliefs and
his own egalitarian beliefs, resulting in conclusions and plans that
will have a hard time gaining traction and likely fail at reducing the
inequality gap he so desperatly wants to close.

Sandel, Michael J. “How Meritocracy Fuels Inequality—Part I The Tyranny
of Merit: An

Overview.” American Journal of Law and Equality, vol. 1, 2021, pp. 4–14,

https://doi.org/10.1162/ajle_a_00024. Accessed 15 May 2022.

Research

Thesis: He fails to recognize the dignity of the people whose jobs are
being transferred to. Within this context, it is the lower American
class that does not possess the knowldege required to mantain the
standard of living of the place where they currently reside. To address
this, it is better not to artifically make it so that they can keep the
lives they have, but to provide them the tools to compete on the global
economy and provide enough value to the world to maintain a decent
standard of living wherever it is that they reside. A good way to
achieve this is by providing accessible education to every person that
wants it.

He brings good points to the table, but takes away the wrong conclusion.
He fails to take into account the nature of the capitalistic system the
American economy is based on, and provides solutions that do not address
the problem long term in a manner that remains egalitarian (Sandel 12,
first highlighted blurb) -> If college was accessible to all, higher
paid jobs that require a degree will be higher paid since they require
more work, but anyone can access them because education is free. If you
just artifically raise the pay of essential workers (which have
arbitrarily defined by the constraints of this pandemic - if we had been
at war the essential workers would be completely different), then
everyone will have a respectable wage (good), but the egalitarian
principle of “what you get what you put in would be lost”, since the
people that put the extra effort to go to college will be making similar
wages to the people that haven’t..

Sandel’s Argument

1.  Basis of meritocracy: If everyone starts out with an equal chance,
    then those who succeed deserve the rewards their talents bring.

2.  Three objections to the fundamentals of meritocracy:

    a.  First, having the talents that enable me to get ahead is not my
        doing; it is my good fortune.

    b.  Second, that I live in a society that happens to prize the
        talents I happen to have is also a matter of luck.

    c.  To these two objections, I add a third–about the attitudes
        toward success that meritocratic societies promote. Those who
        land on top come to believe that their success is their own
        doing, the measure of their merit, and that those who lose out
        must deserve their fate as well.

        i.  This way of thinking brings out the dark side of
            meritocracy. It leads to what I cann “meritocratic
            hubris”–the tendency of the successful to inhale too deeply
            of their success and to look down on those less successful
            than themselves.

            1.  My opinion: This is only the case if we teach that our
                position in life comes purely from our ability and hard
                work. Were we to be taught as children that where we end
                up is a function of ability, hard work, AND where we
                started (what our parents gave us) and luck (we might
                win the lottery), people, even the hard workers, will be
                more understanding and compassionate toward the people
                that have less.

            2.  If someone were to win the lottery (an believe they did
                so because of luck) they would be more willing to share
                the winnings with someone that lost compared to someone
                that won a money prize by completing an exam (believing
                that his performance was completely tied to his hard
                work and ability).

        ii. Such hubris is not only morally unattractive; it also
            deepens the divide between winners and losers and is
            corrosive of the common good.

3.  Talking of Michael Young’s case: But if he is right, the attitudes
    toward success that meritocracies produce make it hard to redress
    inequalities of income and wealth through redistribution. For the
    more confident we are that market outcomes track moral desert, the
    more powerful the presumption that income and wealth should lie
    where they fall.

4.  Meritocracy as a political project found expression in the familiar
    slogan that everyone should be able to rise “as far as their efforts
    and talent will take them.”

5.  But despite its seemingly egalitarian bent, the rhetoric of rising
    entrenched rather than challenged inequalities of income and wealth.
    It did not propose to alleviate these inequalities by reconsidering
    the economic policies that produced them. Instead it offered a
    work-around: individual upward mobility through higher education.

    a.  My opinion: We are talking about deserving. It is important to
        note that while inequalities have increased within the US
        (negative), a lot of opportunities have appeared for, perhaps
        more capable or deserving, people in other countries that are
        willing to charge less.

    b.  If a person in the US writes code, and they are able to write
        one feature per hour, and for that they charge 20 $/hr, why
        should a person in India, who writes the same quality code but
        at two features per hour and charging half, not be hired for
        that job. Stating that this behaviour by global companies is
        unfair implies that there is something better, naturally part of
        being American, that makes it so that they are the deserving
        ones of that job. It would be a form of hidden want of nepotism
        for the fact that the hiring manager and the programmer both are
        American.

    c.  GIVE EXAMPLE OF TWO AMERICANS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITY AND
        AMERICAN AND AN INDIAN WITH DIFFERENT ABILITY TO TALK ABOUT THE
        IMPLICIT HIGH REGARD FOR AMERICANS.

6.  The elites who delivered this message failed to see the implicit
    insult it conveyed: if you did not go to college, and if you are not
    flourishing in the new economy, your failure must be your fault.

    a.  My opinion: It’s not an insult. If they are less capable or they
        provide worse service than foreign counterparts, why are they
        the diserving ones. American inequality is often analyzed
        without looking at the broader flobal inequality.

7.  Elites have so valorized a college degree–both as an avenue for
    advancement and as the basis for social esteem–that they have
    difficulty understanding the hubris a meritocracy can generate and
    the harsh judgment it imposes on those who have not gone to college.

    a.  My opinion: My argument against this argument in general is that
        college in the US is valued way too much and is the basis of
        social esteem.

    b.  I don’t believe the problem to be that it is valued, since it is
        a hard thing to do (so it should be valued according to a
        meritocracy).

    c.  I think the problem is that not everyone is given the same
        opportunity to go to college. THe fact that SAT scores grow
        linearly with family income, that it is expensive to apply (if
        you want to be competitive) and that going to university itself
        is extremely expensive, make it so that what family you were
        born into determines a big portion of your chances of attending
        college, which goes against the concept of meritocracy.

    d.  If food, shelter and education where a guaranteed for every
        student that wanted it, then it would make sense that going to
        college was held in high esteem. It means that after finishing
        high school, someone decided to keep pushing themselves
        mentally. On top of that, it is, and would be, the people that
        go to college that are typically able to provide enormous amount
        of value to everyone in society through research.

8.  We should begin by acknowledging that mobility cannot compensate for
    inequality. Any serious response to the gap between the rich and the
    rest must reckon directly with inequalities of power and wealth,
    rather than rest content with the project of helping people scramble
    up a ladder whose rungs grow farther and garther apart.

9.  This requires shifting the terms of public discourse. Broadly
    speaking, we should focus less on arming people for meritocratic
    competition and more on affirming the dignity of work.

    a.  My opinion: I agree with THE GREEN PART, but disagree with his
        conclusion. We should teach that every job is respectable, but
        it follows the egalitarian principles of meritocracy that people
        who have put in more effort to obtain a better job, position,
        etc. be held in higher regard. I believe the conclusion from the
        data he has presented has to be that we should make the
        requirements for getting any job accessible to all.

10. Affluent parents have figured out how to pass their privilege on to
    their children–not by bequeathing them vast estates, but by equiping
    them to compete in the meritocratic tournament and to win admission
    to top colleges and universities. SAT scores are closely correlated
    with family income.

11. Higher education is like an elevator in a building that most people
    enter on the top floor.

    a.  My opinion: It is important to note that while most of the
        people at top colleges are rich, it is the poor that have the
        most to benefit from university.

    b.  Something to also consider is that a lot of people will look at
        top colleges when making their analysis, but we should not be
        focused on these. Instead, we should be focused on providing
        accessible education to the masses.

12. We should invest far more than we do in those forms of learning that
    most people rely upon to prepare themselves for the world of
    work–state colleges, two-year community colleges, and vocational
    technical training.

13. One consequence of the credentialist tide is that the working class
    is now virtually absent from representative government. In the
    United States, about half of the labor force is employed in
    working-class jobs, defined as manual labor, service industry and
    clerical jobs.

    a.  My opinion: There is more to be researched here. There are other
        reasons why this could be the case other than a credentialist
        tide. A potential hypothetical example is the following: it
        could be assumed that people that run for representative
        government come from relatively wealthy families that can afford
        to maintain them while they run for office, or during their
        early career they have earned a salary large enough that allows
        them to not work while they run (more likely to get a high
        paying job if you get a college degree). The relative increase
        in college prices during the past decades (when compared to
        median wages) could have made it so that it is people from
        richer families that can afford to go to college and then also
        have enough money to run for office (as opposed to have to use
        their income to pay back loans).

    b.  This provides a possible alternative explanation to the
        credentialist tide for the increase in credentialed members in
        representative government. If this were true, it would reinforce
        the previously stated need of making state colleges, community
        colleges, and vocational training cheaper/free and available to
        all.

14. It tells them that the work they do, less valued by the market than
    the work of well-paid professionals, is a lesser contribution to the
    common good and so less worthy of social recognition and esteem.

    a.  My opinion: Something I disagree with here is that what the
        market “values” (as measured by wages) is different from what
        people hold in high esteem.

    b.  Non-profit work is probably some of the work held in the highest
        regard, yet it often reaps very small monetary rewards.

    c.  Trash collectors are often held in very low esteem, yet they
        earn great wages when compared to other jobs.

15. But over the last several decades, the idea that the money people
    make is the measure of thei contribution to the common good has
    become deeply embedded.

    a.  My opinion: That is a purely American notion that stems from the
        Protestant work culture.

16. Those of us with the luxury of working from home during the pandemic
    have come to recognize how deeply we depend on workers we often
    overlook–delivery workers, warehouse workers, supermarket cashiers
    and grocery store clerks, utility workers, nurse assistants,
    childcare workers, hame care providers. These are not the best paid
    nor the most honored workers in our society. But now we see them as
    “essential workers.” This could be the moment for a public debate
    about how to reconfigure the economy to bring their pay and
    recognition into better alignment with the importance of their work.
    ADDRESSED AT THE END OF MY THESIS.

17. Such deliberation would carry us beyond debates about distributive
    justice (how to distribute income, opportunity, and the good things
    in life) to debates about contributive justice (how to create
    conditions that enable everyone to contribute to the common good and
    to receive honor and recognition for having done so).

    a.  My solution still hold with this. By giving everyone the
        opportunity of taking on whatever job they please, they still
        allow everyone to contribute.

18. Policy proposals to increase the purchasing power of working- and
    middle-class families, or to shore up the safety net, important
    though they are, will not by themselves address the anger and
    resentment that now runs deep. This is because the injury that most
    animates the grievance of working people is to their status as
    producers.

    a.  My opinion: This runs contrary to point 16 since it is precisely
        saying that the measures to increase income proposed in point 16
        will not work.

    b.  I agree with what is said in point 18, but I read it as more of
        a support to my theory than something more that raising wages
        has to be done.

19. They come instead from “dignified employment at decent pay,” the
    kind of employment that enables us to say, “I helped build this
    country. I am a participant in its great public ventures.”

    a.  My opinion: I think he fails to explain why respect has to be
        correlated to pay. One is related to your ability to produce
        value in a capitalistic system. The other is tied to the
        intrinsic desert everyone has by providing any sort of value to
        society.

20. Encourage the domestic manufacture of certain goods (beginning with
    surgical masks, medical gear, and pharmaceuticals) rather than
    promote outsorcing to low-wage countries;

    a.  My opinion: Why is that more fair. How is this different from
        nepotism on the basis of nationality?

21. Taxing financial transactions and reducing payroll taxes would not
    only make the tax system more progressive, it would express
    society’s judgement that work ismore valuable than casino-like
    speculation.

    a.  My opinion: An objection would be that Sandel asks for pay that
        rewards the same activities that “society values” but doesn’t
        propose a change to the fundamental economic system. In a
        capitalistic society, pay is determined by market equilibriums.
        Why does the current pay not represent what “society values” if
        it is every member of society that, through their behaviour, has
        set the price of a good or service that they want to consume.
        These prices flow upwards to the workers involved in producing
        those goods and services.

22. Meritocratic sorting taught us that our success is our own doing,
    and so eroded our sense of indebtedness. We are now in the midst of
    the angry whirlwind this unraveling has produced. To renew our civic
    life, we must repair the social bonds the age of merit has undone.

    a.  My opinion: I agree that the sense that success is our own doing
        has eorded our sense of indebtedness, but I believe that an
        education focused on respect and value of all people, coupld
        with accessible routes to any profession one desires is a better
        way for everyone in society to obtain the respect that they
        deserve than alterin economic incentives so that blue collar
        workers are paid more. I don’t believe it is a wrong thing to
        do, just that it will not fix the current meritocratic hubris.
        In fact, it might generate a greater divide if a higher entity
        (e.g., the government) forces credentialed workers to pay higher
        taxes to subsidize the wages of workers that–in their eyes–don’t
        deserve it.

    b.  If we first teach respect for everyone, when those people grow
        up, they will eventually change the system so that the financial
        incentives align with their moral values.


Rev. 1

In 2018, I was awarded a cultural trip to Israel, where I visited
cities, learning the history of each one.

In 2019, I was awarded a scholarship to do field research in Panama,
where I studied vines for two weeks.

Esto queda medio “so what?”, es importante decir algo mas concreto que
le diga a quien lo lee lo que hiciste. Por ejemplo: In 2019, I spent 3
months conducting field research on the speciation of vines in Panama.

Rev. 2

In 2018, I went to the Netherlands to represent my country in the
International Science Olympiad, returning with a bronze medal. I then
made a cultural trip to Israel. In 2019, I spent 2 weeks conducting
field research on the relationship between light intensity and vine
presence in Panama.

Comentario de Guille

Estas describiendo como pasaste 4 semanas de un verano y 2 semans del
siguiente.

Y con las otras 20 semanas que hiciste?? Los millones de horas que te
pasaste desarrollando apps, etc. donde estan? Acordate que cada
respuesta tuya tiene que ser consistente con el perfil que estas
desarrollando, el rompecabezas tiene que mostrar un Inaki coherente,
solido, claro,. Esos tres viajes no representan quien sos o a que te
dedicas. Tenes que tener en cuenta que mucha gente viaja en los veranos,
y a lugares muy exoticos, etc… el tema es que haces vos con tu tiempo.

Te propondria algo asi:

Rev. 3 - T y G

I spent the past two summers developing apps for both fun and profit. In
addition, in 2018 I represented Argentina in the International Science
Olympiad and brought back a bronze medal. In 2019, I joined a field
research team studying the relationship between light intensity and
vegetation development in Panama.


In 2-4 double-spaced pages, describe your research project and
conference participation, being sure to address the following proposal
components:

1.  Overview of conference and your conference participation (ex.
    description of your participation, motivation for attending, what
    you hope to gain from the experience, etc.)

2.  How this conference presentation fits into your Harvard academic
    trajectory and/or research goals.

3.  Objective, significance, and implications of research project

4.  Detailed plan for research (the status of the research project in
    question; how does the conference presentation fit into the overall
    research plan?)

5.  Use of funds (provide detailed estimates and quotes of all
    anticipated presentation expenses; it’s okay if total goes beyond
    $1000)

6.  Faculty involvement

Dear URAF Conference Funding Committee,

My name is Iñaki Arango. I am a junior at Harvard college pursuing a
joint concentration in Computer Science and Statistics and a concurrent
masters in Computer Science at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of
Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS).

Thank you for considering my request for URAF Conference Funding to
support our project, "Multi-objective generative AI for designing novel
brain-targeting small molecules." This work was conducted under the
guidance of Prof. Nada Amin, Assistant Professor of Computer Science at
Harvard University, as part of COMPSCI 252R: Advanced Topics in
Programming Languages and COMPSCI 91R: Supervised Reading and Research
during the Fall 2023 and Spring 2024 semesters.

In our study, we focus on identifying small molecule drug candidates for
central nervous system (CNS) diseases that currently lack effective
treatments. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) poses a significant challenge
in delivering drugs to the CNS, hindering both diagnosis and treatment.
Computational methods that generate BBB-permeable lead compounds in
silico could be valuable tools in the CNS drug design process. However,
in practical applications, BBB penetration alone is not sufficient;
molecules must also perform a desired function, such as binding to a
specific target or receptor in the brain, while being safe and non-toxic
for human use.

To address these challenges, we employed multi-objective generative AI
to synthesize drug-like, BBB-permeable small molecules with high
predicted binding affinity to a disease-relevant CNS target. We
specifically focused on designing molecules with predicted bioactivity
against dopamine receptor D2, which is the primary target for most
clinically effective antipsychotic drugs. After training several graph
neural network-based property predictors, we adapted SyntheMol (Swanson
et al., 2024), a recently developed Monte Carlo Tree Search-based
algorithm originally designed for antibiotic discovery, to perform a
multi-objective guided traversal over an easily synthesizable molecular
space.

As a result, we designed a library of 26,581 novel and diverse small
molecules containing hits with high predicted BBB permeability,
favorable predicted safety and toxicity profiles, and the potential for
straightforward synthesis and experimental validation in the wet lab. We
also validated top-scoring molecules using molecular docking simulation
against the D2 receptor, demonstrating predicted binding affinity
comparable to risperidone, a clinically prescribed D2-targeting
antipsychotic. We hope that our SyntheMol-based computational approach
will enable the discovery of novel neurotherapeutics for currently
intractable CNS disorders in the future.

I completed this project together with fellow undergraduate and co-first
author Ayush Noori. Ayush and I divided the work for this project
equally: for example, we designed the algorithmic paradigm together,
Ayush curated the labeled data to train molecular property predictors
(e.g., see his contribution to the Therapeutics Data Commons at
mims-harvard/TDC PR #215), I developed the training loop and adapted the
Monte Carlo Tree Search algorithm, Ayush performed the molecular
simulations, and we drafted the paper together. We also plan to jointly
present the paper at any future conferences.

Our research paper was submitted to the 2024 Generative and Experimental
Perspectives for Biomolecular Design (GEM) workshop, which is part of
the 12th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR),
scheduled to take place from May 7th to May 11th, 2024, in the city of
Vienna, Austria. ICLR is considered one of the most influential and
highly regarded machine learning conferences worldwide. We were both
thrilled and grateful when our paper, which underwent a rigorous
double-blind review process, was accepted for presentation at ICLR GEM.

One of the anonymous reviewers provided glowing feedback, stating, “This
work introduces a groundbreaking AI-driven approach for designing
brain-targeting small molecules, overcoming BBB challenges and enhancing
CNS drug delivery, notably through its novel methodology and promising
implications for treating CNS disorders... The paper presents a novel
and potentially impactful approach to CNS drug discovery, with strong
methodological rigor and clear presentation. Given its contributions to
the field and the promising results demonstrated, I recommend
acceptance.” The reviewer further indicated that our paper was ranked in
the top 15% of accepted papers and gave it a strong recommendation for
acceptance. We are truly humbled by this recognition and eagerly
anticipate the opportunity to share our work with the scientific
community at ICLR GEM.

As an international student from Argentina, attending the GEM workshop
is an incredible opportunity, but it also presents significant financial
challenges. Argentina's current economic instability, characterized by
high inflation rates and currency devaluation, has greatly limited my
family's ability to financially support my education in the United
States.

I have been working diligently to secure internships and research
opportunities to help fund my studies, but these efforts fall short of
covering the substantial costs associated with attending an
international conference like GEM. The expenses, including international
travel, accommodation, and registration fees, are considerably higher
than what I can afford on my own, especially given the workshop's
location in Vienna, Austria.

The GEM workshop offers a unique platform for me to engage with the
global scientific community, present my research, and gain valuable
insights that are crucial for my academic and professional growth.
Attending the GEM workshop would be a transformative experience for me
as a young researcher. My work on "Multi-Objective Generative AI for
Designing Novel Brain-Targeting Small Molecules" represents my first
substantial academic research experience, and it has ignited a strong
interest in potentially pursuing a PhD in the future. This project has
opened my eyes to the incredible potential of combining computational
methods with biology to make a meaningful impact on people's lives.

By presenting my research at such a prestigious international
conference, I hope to receive invaluable feedback and insights from
experts in the field. Their input could significantly refine my approach
and elevate the quality of my future research endeavors. Moreover, the
workshop provides a unique opportunity to connect with other passionate
individuals who share my enthusiasm for using computational tools to
advance biological research and ultimately improve patient outcomes.

Many of the invited speakers and panelists have done, or are doing,
things that I am extremely interested in, and that I want to do in the
future. I am interested in meeting with Rohit Singh, and discussing how
he found his computational biology skills useful for finance, and why he
decided to start a company for predicting default rates. I want to talk
to Neolia Ferruz, and learn how her lab is using generative models for
designing proteins, which could potentially be very applicable to the
use of diffusion models for de novo drug design. I would also like to
connect with Gevorg Grigoryan, and hear the story of how he spun out his
research into a successful startup. Finally, I want to meet with Alex
Rives and understand how he started two companies that went public
before he even got his PhD. I believe everyone at the conference has a
different story to tell, with a different learning to be made, and I
would like to tell mine.

The discussions, sessions, and networking opportunities at the
conference will be incredibly valuable for a developing researcher like
me. It is an ideal place to explore my growing interest in research and
better understand whether a PhD aligns with my long-term goals. This
experience could be a defining moment in my academic journey, providing
me with the clarity and direction I need at this early but critical
stage.

Above all, the GEM workshop will allow me to immerse myself in a
community of like-minded individuals who share my goals and aspirations.
The connections and collaborations I establish there have the potential
to shape my entire future in this field, and I am excited about the
prospect of being part of such a vibrant and impactful community.

I would be deeply grateful for the financial assistance provided by
URAF, which would enable me to attend this remarkable event. If granted,
the URAF conference funding would cover the following expenses:

1.  Round-trip airfare from Boston, MA to Vienna, Austria, which is
    estimated to cost approximately $2,160.

2.  Accommodation in Vienna for the duration of the conference, from May
    6th to May 11th, 2024, with an estimated cost of $2,490, including
    taxes.

3.  The discounted academic registration fee for full-time students
    attending ICLR 2024, which amounts to $475.

The total amount of funding requested for this opportunity is $5,125.
Once again, I extend my sincere gratitude for considering my
application. I eagerly hope to have the chance to participate in this
exceptional and unparalleled opportunity for learning and professional
development.

Sincerely,

___________________________________

Iñaki Arango

A.B./S.M. Candidate in Computer Science and Statistics

Harvard College


The narrative report should provide an overall description of your
conference presentation experience, be 2-3 pages in length,
double-spaced, and should contain the following components:

-   An overview of your research project and your conference
    presentation experience (including any challenges, surprises,
    changes you would make for your next presentation, etc.);

-   Reflection on the experience of presenting your research in either a
    virtual environment or in-person;

-   Reflection on how this experience will impact your time left at
    Harvard and advance your thesis and/or interest in the topic; and

-   A description of the interaction with your faculty sponsor (if any).

Dear URAF Conference Funding Committee,

I am writing to thank you for the support that allowed me to present our
project, "Multi-objective generative AI for designing novel
brain-targeting small molecules", at the 2024 Generative and
Experimental Perspectives for Biomolecular Design (GEM) workshop, part
of the 12th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR),
that took place from May 7th to May 11th, 2024, in the city of Vienna,
Austria. This work was conducted under the guidance of Prof. Nada Amin,
Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Harvard University, as part
of COMPSCI 252R: Advanced Topics in Programming Languages and COMPSCI
91R: Supervised Reading and Research during the Fall 2023 and Spring
2024 semesters.

In our study, we focus on identifying small molecule drug candidates for
central nervous system (CNS) diseases that currently lack effective
treatments. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) poses a significant challenge
in delivering drugs to the CNS, hindering both diagnosis and treatment.
Computational methods that generate BBB-permeable lead compounds in
silico could be valuable tools in the CNS drug design process. However,
in practical applications, BBB penetration alone is not sufficient;
molecules must also perform a desired function, such as binding to a
specific target or receptor in the brain, while being safe and non-toxic
for human use.

To address these challenges, we employed multi-objective generative AI
to synthesize drug-like, BBB-permeable small molecules with high
predicted binding affinity to a disease-relevant CNS target. We
specifically focused on designing molecules with predicted bioactivity
against dopamine receptor D2, which is the primary target for most
clinically effective antipsychotic drugs. After training several graph
neural network-based property predictors, we adapted SyntheMol (Swanson
et al., 2024), a recently developed Monte Carlo Tree Search-based
algorithm originally designed for antibiotic discovery, to perform a
multi-objective guided traversal over an easily synthesizable molecular
space.

As a result, we designed a library of 26,581 novel and diverse small
molecules containing hits with high predicted BBB permeability,
favorable predicted safety and toxicity profiles, and the potential for
straightforward synthesis and experimental validation in the wet lab. We
also validated top-scoring molecules using molecular docking simulation
against the D2 receptor, demonstrating predicted binding affinity
comparable to risperidone, a clinically prescribed D2-targeting
antipsychotic. We hope that our SyntheMol-based computational approach
will enable the discovery of novel neurotherapeutics for currently
intractable CNS disorders in the future.

I completed this project together with fellow undergraduate and co-first
author Ayush Noori. Ayush and I divided the work for this project
equally: we designed the algorithmic paradigm together, Ayush curated
the labeled data to train molecular property predictors, I developed the
training loop and adapted the Monte Carlo Tree Search algorithm, Ayush
performed the molecular simulations, and we drafted the paper together.
We also jointly designed the poster and presented it together at ICLR
GEM 2024.

I am deeply thankful for the support of the Office of Undergraduate
Research and Fellowships, which enabled both of us to attend one of the
premier deep learning conventions and present our work to the global
scientific community. Attending ICLR 2024, my first research conference,
was truly a transformative experience. It broadened my understanding of
the research world and gave me a new perspective on the jobs that
scientists take after moving on from academia. Ayush and I showcased our
research during two GEM poster sessions and received overwhelmingly
positive feedback from attendees, including experts in computer science
and biomolecular design. Many visitors expressed excitement about the
synthesizability guarantee that the algorithm provided for generated
molecules, and framed it as a great feature within the context of the
workshop talks, where it was made clear that synthesizability was a
great problem with the molecules generated by the state of the art
diffusion models.

Discussions regarding how we could improve or extend our paper were
extremely valuable. I learned how we could have made our binding
affinity benchmark more accurate, and what other binding targets were
currently of high priority in the research world. As I dig deeper into
the world of computational biology and the intersection of machine
learning and health, some of interactions with authors and papers from
the posters I saw will be extremely useful:

-   “Removing Biases from Molecular Representations via Information
    Maximization” by Wang et al. This new representation method showed
    superior performance in molecular property prediction and could
    prove very useful for extending our paper.

-   “CoRe-GD: A Hierarchical Framework for Scalable Graph Visualization
    with GNNs” by Grötschla et al. This new method will be useful for
    displaying the vast biological knowledge graph powering drug
    repurposing predictions in Ayush’s and my new collaboration project:
    GRAVITY.

-   “Less is More: One-shot Subgraph Reasoning on Large-scale Knowledge
    Graphs” by Zhou et al. could also be useful for GRAVITY, as it could
    enable a higher degree of explainability for predictions made from a
    knowledge graph.

Outside of the GEM workshop, the corporate booths at the conference
allowed me to interact with researchers from companies at the forefront
of the machine learning field, such as Google Research and DeepMind, as
well as discover the Chinese counterparts to many of these American
companies leading AI research, such as Zhipu AI, Unitree, and Meituan.
By speaking to their researchers I was able to understand their vision
for the future and how they fit in the global landscape. Conversations
with DeepMind software engineers also led me to discover the role of
Research Engineers, which I believe fits my profile better than the
researcher role, and for which I plan on applying for next year.

The Generative Artificial Intelligence side-event was a great
opportunity to meet like minded individuals interested in applying the
latest research to entrepreneurial pursuits. One of the people that
struck out the most was Dr. Martin Szummer, founder and CTO of VocalIQ,
a spoken dialog company that made a self-learning voice interface and
that was bought by Apple as part of the Siri project. With him, and with
Walden Yan, Harvard alumnus and co-founder of Cognition AI, we talked
about the culture of Generative AI applied to the code writing and
maintenance within large, mostly corporate, codebases. These
conversations were incredibly insightful and tied in perfectly with my
future thesis research into code generating agents.

Other papers in the larger conference covered LLM programming agents and
caught my eye. “Executable CodeACtions Elicit Better LLM Agents” by Wang
et al. introduced a new action space (CodeAct) for large language models
to process information they receive and act on it. This method, which
provides agents with a Python environment that allows them to execute
arbitrary queries, was shown to improve the effectiveness and efficiency
of language models. “Tailoring Self-Rationalizers with Multi-Reward
Distillation” by Ramnath et al. showed that LMs orders of magnitude
smaller than GPT-3, a common model for code generation, could outperform
it for a restricted set of tasks if configured correctly. This opens the
gates for the use of small but powerful single-purpose models that could
greatly reduce the cost of operating a code-generating network of
agents.

Also through the code generation workshop at the conference, I had the
opportunity to meet and spend the afternoon and evening with Parth
Sarthi, Salman Abdullah, Aditi Tuli, Shubh Khanna, Anna Goldie, the
authors of “RAPTOR: Recursive Abstractive Processing for Tree-Organized
Retrieval”. They are undergraduate students at Stanford and researchers
at Dr. Christopher Manning’s lab. I was able to learn from their
experience also turning a class project into a conference paper and from
their views on the future of Retrieval-Augmented Generations. Not only
was it a great learning experience but it also left me with friendships
that can flourish in the future whenever I visit Stanford.

That same evening I got the opportunity to spend time with Harvard
alumnus Luke Melas-Kyriazi, who is a Rhodes Scholar and PhD student at
Oxford University. He talked about how much he enjoyed his undergraduate
experience on campus and gave his thoughts on how to craft a successful
and fulfilling trajectory after graduation.

Overall the conference and the week in Vienna were incredible
opportunities to receive feedback on our research, learn more about the
industry, and interact with like-minded individuals. Once again, I
extend my sincere gratitude for the funding provided to attend the GEM
workshop at ICLR 2024, which turned out to be an exceptional and
unparalleled opportunity for learning and professional development.

Sincerely,

___________________________________

Iñaki Arango

A.B./S.M. Candidate in Computer Science and Statistics

Harvard College

Ayush Noori and me, right after the final round of poster
presentations.[]


En cuanto al concepto:

_ Una palabra que nos disparó es “Rookie“ (novato), tomarlo con humor y
que sea una cuenta alegre, todos estamos aprendiendo.

_ Tech savy (ser “salvaje“, tener coraje para mandarte en un mundo
nuevo, “dive-into“, jugársela, tirarte a la pileta)

_La idea del SandBox, donde en la infancia tocamos todo, nos embarramos,
“conocemos el mundo”

Posibles nombres:

Club de Rukis

Los Rukis

Teknow

Ideas para posteos
SEO (Search Engine Optimization) – Es el proceso mediante el cual se
afecta la visibilidad de una página en un motor de búsqueda, cómo
Google, para atraer más visitas “orgánicas”.

Tráfico Orgánico – Todas las visitas a un sitio que resultan de la
aparición no paga del mismo en motores de búsqueda

DNS (Domain Name System) – El Sistema de Nombres de Dominio es una base
de datos de nombres en donde dominios de internet (Ej: “google.com”) se
traducen a IPs (direcciones en internet) para que uno pueda acceder a
contenido.
Tech savy


Rev. 1

I've been always interested in learning an instrument, or a third
language. With only one more hour per day, I'd choose the latter. I
think it'd probably be either Chinese or Hebrew, because I believe in
those two places amazing developments are going to take place in the
coming years.

Ex. sin instrumento:

I’ve always been interested in learning a third language. With this
extra time I would choose either Chinese or….

Rev. 2

I’ve always been interested in learning a third language. With this
extra time I would choose either Chinese or Hebrew because I believe
amazing developments in the field of artificial intelligence are going
to take place those two places in the coming years, revolutionizing our
day to day life.

Guille’s comments: las palabras en amarillo podrian descartarse sin
afectar el mensaje. Ademas, nota que Chinese y Hebrew no son “two
places”.

Propondria, en 33 palabras:

  I would learn Chinese or Hebrew because I believe China and Israel
  will lead breakthroughs in artificial intelligence that will
  revolutionize our day-to-day life and I would like to contribute to
  that work.


I want to transmit that I am

-   Non-conformist

-   Freethinker

-   Proactive

-   Resourceful

-   Uses tach for the betterment of society


Desarrollo del proyecto

A principio de año, Manuel y Tomás se acercaron para preguntarme si
podía ser su proyect manager, prometiendo que iban a trabajar duro y
hacer su mejor esfuerzo para crear un muy buen juego. Ari se unió
después al equipo bajo la promesa de que solo se unía para gregar, no
restar, y que no iba a distraer a nadie de las tareas que ya estuviese
haciendo.

Problemáticas generales

Hubo varios problemas. El primero consistió en que al principio de año,
al momento de definir la duración de las tareas para el roadmap, los
integrantes subestimaron el tiempo que les iba a consumir realizarlas.
Incluso habiendo alargado las tareas por las dudas, no pudieron cumplir
con los tiempo establecidos.

El segundo problema fue que el de cuello de botella. La página web
estuvo lista antes que los diseño que tenían que ir dentro de ella, por
lo que Ariel estuvo bastantes semanas sin trabajo hasta recibir de
Manuel los diseños que correspondían. A su vez, Manuel estuvo bastante
tiempo sin poder visualizar sus diseños en el juego, porque la
programación estaba bastante atrasada.

El último problema, y el menos importante, fue que a veces Manuel y
Ariel se distraían entre si, y no avanzaban en sus tareas,

Integrantes

Manuel

Con las primeras entregas se fue dando cuenta de que las fechas que
había puesto no se ajustaban a lo que él en realidad tardaba en realizar
las tareas. Por eso, al final del primer trimestre, reorganizamos los
tiempos de las tareas de forma tal de que tuviese todo el proyecto listo
para el final del segundo trimestre. Esta reorganización sumada a una
charla personal que tuve con él, sirvieron para impulsarlo y que al
final pudiese terminar todas sus tareas para el final del trimestre.

Tomás

Tomás a principio de año tuvo un desempeño lento pero seguro, y estaba
dispuesto a hacer el juego lo mejor que podía. Los problemas comenzaron
cuando GameMaker se trabó y corrompió todos los archivos de juego.
Cuando le dije que no había problema, que si perdió el trabajo del día,
siguiese adelante, me explicó que él estaba editando desde el pendrive
directo los archivos del juego, y que se le había perdido el trabajo de
todo el año. Cuando le pregunté dónde estaba su backup, me dijo que él
no tenía backup de nada. Fue entonces que le dije que hiciese backups y
que volviese a empezar. Como había adquirido conocimientos, retomó el
trabajo mucho más rápido y llego a recuperar todo el tiempo perdido y
hacer un poco extra. Pero se le volvió a corromper el archivo y resulta
que de vuelta no había hecho backups. A la tercera vez, empezó a hacer
backups, pero ya desarrollaba bastante lento y desmotivado.

Ariel

Ariel tuvo la tarea a lo largo del año de hacer un sitio web. Fue su
decisión hacerla con Google Web Designer. Él sabía que podía dar más, y
yo también, pero por problemas externos, no se le fueron asignadas más
tareas. Fue por esto, y por un trato que hice con Ariel, que en dos
semanas desde el comienzo de su trabajo, tenía todo el sitio web
terminado. En donde iban las imágenes, que todavía no habían side
diseñadas por Manuel, dejó espacios en blanco, y apenas estuvieron
disponibles, las insertó. De acuerdo al trato, una vez que terminase sus
tareas, tenía permiso de usar el tiempo de clase de proyecto como tiempo
libre, siempre y cuando no desconcentrase a sus compañeros de equipo.

Aprendizajes

Mi principal aprendizaje es que a las personas que suelen tender a
distraerse fácilmente o a trabajar poco, hay que vigilarlas más de
cerca, para asegurarse de que no se atrasen, o que se pongan a hacer
otra cosa durante las horas en las que deberían estar trabajando.

También aprendí que no todos tienen nociones básicas sobre cómo trabajar
en tareas largas, por lo que hay que enseñarle a las personas sobre lo
que es un backup, gestión y nombramiento de archivos, etc. También hay
que enseñar sobre las virtudes de tener varias copias de los datos
guardadas en distintos lugares, por si se pierde acceso a alguno.


Desarrollo del proyecto

A principio del año armamos el equipo junto a Lautaro, que ya conocía a
algunas personas por SAE, a Fede y a Guido. Bauti se sumó porque le
interesaba la idea de hacer backend y quería aprender, y a Mile le
pregunté si se quería sumar por que me había encantado el trabajo que
había hecho con nosotros el año anterior en Satellogic.

El desarrollo a lo largo del año fue dentro de todo acelerado en
comparación con otros grupos, pero en promedio. Hubo grandes períodos de
estancamiento en los que nadie hacía mucho.

Problemáticas generales

Hubo dos grande problemas que yo reconocería que ocurrieron a lo largo
del año. El primero es que el foco se perdía cada tanto, y la
concentración y dedicación era cíclica. Cada tanto pasaba por picos muy
altos, y luego bajaba de vuelta a casi nula. Esto se debía a veces a
distracciones externas, como Porto o fiestas de egresados, pero en otros
casos, me es ajeno el motivo.

El segundo problema fue la pelea personal entre Lautaro y Bautista, que
dividió al curso en dos, y por lo tanto al equipo también. A diferencia
de otras personas del curso, la separación entre los integrantes no fue
tan fuerte, excepto entre Lautaro y Bautista por supuesto. Esto llevó a
gritos, insultos, agravados también por el hecho de que Lautaro hacía
muchas requests al servidor y que Bautista se retrasó bastante en subir
el código a la nube.

Integrantes

Milena

Con Mile no hubo muchos problemas. Fue la primera en terminar su
trabajo. Lo que sí hubo fueron un poco de quejas por su parte por cómo
era la dinámica de equipo, sobre todo a principio de año. Al principio
del año, cuando durante las reuniones no se prestaban mucha atención los
integrantes del equipo,, mile se quejaba de que algunos le pedían que
hiciese pantallas, que al final no se necesitaban, y que nunca se habían
planeado.

En términos de velocidad, las primeras dos semanas, hasta que se
acostumbró, le costaba llegar a las fechas de entrega y no entendía que
había que cumplirlas. Decía “no entregué” y no parecía tener mucho
remordimiento. Pero después aceleró y en aproximadamente dos meses
terminó el trabajo de todo el año.

Lautaro

Lautaro siempre tuvo ganas de hacer el proyecto, pero su dedicación fue
fluctuante. Su código se caracterizó por ser bastante inestable y
difícil de refactorizar o de modificar el comportamiento. No se dirigía
de la manera más agradable a sus compañeros de equipo, usualmente
llamándolos por apodos con connotación negativa, insultándolos o
gritándoles.

Si bien sus habilidades blandas no fueron las mejores consiguió cumplir
con casi la totalidad de los objetivos que se habían dispuesto
internamente en el equipo para él a principio de año. Además, tomó una
especie de rol de líder, inspirando e incentivando al resto de los
integrantes cuando se atrasaban o perdían interes en el proyecto.

Federico

En el caso de Federico, terminó relativamente rápido, pero porque no
tuvo problema haciendo íconos, que era su primer tarea. El tema es que
con tareas más complejas, tenía problemas y no llegaba a resultados tan
buenos como los de Milena, entonces a mitad de año reorganizamos las
tareas, y a fede le dimos más que nada tareas que correspondían a lo
externo, como hacer animaciones, guiones, u otras cosas externas a lo
que es extrictamente la app de proyecto. Las tareas finales que le
correspondían a Federico fueron tomadas por Milena.

Guido

Guido al principio iba muy lento y le costó un montó empezar. Quería
aprender React sin saber JS. Entonces le puse un tutorial de JS para que
viese, pero avanzaba 10 minutos por bloque de proyecto.

No lo llegó a terminar, pero buscando ejemplos de cómo funcionaba React,
pudo seguir adelante. El problema que tuvo seguido de esto era que si
bien eran funcionales los Views que programaba, no era muy agradable
estéticmente.

Sorprendenetmente, en el último mes de desarrollo, logró mejorar
muchísimo sus habilidades para plasmar los diseños de Mile y Fede en las
interfaces funcionales de React.

Bautista

Bautista le puso muchísima energía al proyecto desde el principio.
Aprendión un montón de la gran cantidad de tutoriales que vio, muy
extensos. Después de eso, se puso a trabajar, y si bien le costó plasmar
los conceptos de los videos en soluciones funcionales, una vez que lo
consiguió, aceleró rapidísimo y fue uno de los primeros en terminar
proyecto. Luego, dedicó el resto del año a agregar funcionalidad
adicional, y ayudar a sus compañeros a integrar el frontend con el
backend.

Aprendizajes

El principal aprendizaje que tuve fue que las reuniones es mejor
tenerlas fuera del area de trabajo, donde las personas no estén
distraidas por las tareas que tienen que hacer en el momento. Lo mejor
fue salir afuera del laboratorio, sin dispositivos electrónicos.

Un aprendizaje también importante fue que las relaciones a lo largo de
un proyecto, especialmente uno medianamente largo, pueden cambiar y
gente que era muy amiga, puede terminar distanciada, e incluso peleada,
tanto por motivos internos como externos.


Desarrollo del proyecto

Al principio del año Dylan estaba solo, y con ganas de hacer un proyecto
sobre certificados educativos en blockchain. Ralph y Tomás estaban
juntos, pero no tenían equipo, e Idan estaba solo. Frente a esta
situación, pensé que podía llegar a ser una buena idea que trabajasen
juntos. A partir de varias reuniones con personas externas a la
institución, la idea fue modificandose, hasta llegar a la final: Un
servicio facilitador para el manejo de documentos en blockchain.

Problemáticas generales

Hubo una problemática alrededor del equipo, y otra alrededor del
desarrollo del backend de la plataforma.

Los conflictos internos al equipo se debieron a dos motivos:

1.  El producto se intentó llevar al mercado y transformar en un
    emprendimiento. En la versión externa del producto, no todas las
    partes de proyecto eran necesarias, por lo que el derecho a partes
    de lo recaudado fue disputado entre los integrantes.

2.  Había un nivel dispar de conocimiento entre los integrantes del
    equipo, por lo que algunos se frustraban con la velocidad de los
    otros.

El conflicto en relación con el desarrollo del backend tuvo que ver con
que la versión final (al igual que todas las intermedias) eran sumamente
inestables y no seguían las sugerencias de las normas RFC e ISO en
cuestión de estándares informáticos y de comunicación.

Integrantes

Idan

Durante la etapa de investigación, Idan investigó un montón sobre Vue,
pero no tenía conocimientos de JavaScript. Por esta razón, cuando
comenzó a trabajar, si bien tenía ideas muy concretas y correctas sobre
los patrones de Vue a utilizar para empezar a trabajar, le costaba
programarlas y hacerlas funcionar. Por esta razón, recibió un poco de
ayuda por mi parte, y por parte de otros integrantes del equipo en
materia de JavaScript, y de plasmar ideas en código. Gracias a esta
ayuda, y a su investigación profunda sobre Vue, pudo terminar
exitosamente a tiempo el proyecto, y dejar la plataforma web en estado
para una fácil proxima expansión y/o modificación.

Ralph

A principio de año Ralph empezó lento. Sabía JavaScript muy por arriba,
y no tenía ningún conocimiento de Vue. En el periodo de investigación,
no se concentró mucho en los conceptos básicos de Vue, por lo que las
primeras partes del desarrollo fueron bastante lentas, hasta que en un
momento de estancamiento, me senté con él y le dije que haga la lista
completa de tutorial de Vue en Scrimba. Después de eso, su velocidad de
desarrollo aceleró un montón y pudo terminar exitosamente el proyecto a
timepo.

Tomás

Con Tomás no hubo ningún tipo de problema a lo largo del desarrollo. Se
encargó de leer un montón de recursos durante la etapa de investigación
y de aprender profundamente los conceptos. Después de esto realizó sus
tareas rápidamente y para antes del final del segundo trimestre, ya
tenía todo terminado. Después de este período se dedicó a aprender
nuevas cosas, completamente opcionales, como animación en After Effects,
y a mejorar sus diseños.

Dylan

Para el final de la etapa de investigación, Dylan ya tenía lista la
versión inicial del backend. Yo me tomé esto como una muy buena noticia,
porque a diferencia de los integrantes de otros equipos, Dylan iba a
tener tiempo para perfeccionar el producto y asegurarse de que andase
sin problemas. Pero no terminó siendo tan positivo esto como creí,
porque resulta que la razón por la que había avanzado tan rápidamente
era porque solo se dedicó a investigar las tecnologías que no conocía,
Blockchain, Truffle, etc., y no investigó las que ya conocía, por lo que
terminó usando subtecnologías atrasadas para realizar la parte básica
del servidor. Esto llevó a futuros problemas de escalabilidad y testeo.

Además, Dylan siguió avanzando e iterando sobre el producto a lo largo
del año, pero no con un enfoque en la calidad, sino que con un enfoque
en la funcionalidad. Esto fue un gran problema porque mucha de la
funcionalidad terminaba funcionando a medias, o no funcionando en su
totalidad, y terminaba siendo tiempo perdido el de desarrollo.

Hacia final de año, dejó de agregar funcionalidad, y se concentró, tras
mi repetido pedido, de mejorar la estabiliadad del backend, y la
estructura interna y escalabilidad del código, pero no alcanzó a
terminar este proceso porque ya se adentraban las últimas semanas de
proyecto y había que preparar las cosas para la presentación.

Aprendizajes

Aprendí que si bien hay personas que dicen saber mucho, y hablan como si
estuviesen trabajando en consecuencia, no necesariamente siempre es así,
por lo que siempre hay que mantener por lo menos cierto nivel de control
sobre la calidad y el avance del trabajo realizado.

También aprendí que los estándares de calidad tienen que ser
establecidos desde un principio, porque no todos siempre intentan
trabajar bajo los mejores posibles estándares de calidad. La diferencia
de calidad esperada entre los integrantes del equipo va a llevar a que
en algún momento surjan discuciones.

Por último, aprendí que hay gente que si bien al principio del
desarrollo no sabe mucho sobre la tecnología que tiene que usar, aprende
con bastante rapidez, y termina desarrollando mucho mejor de los
esperado.


-   Missed the beginning, but seems like a chill guy.

-   He really likes math problems. Likes thinking about them and has
    submitted one of them to the international math olympiad.

-   Doing AADT and applied to the STAHR program

    -   AADT takes 2-3 hours a week.

    -   STAHR takes 2 hours a week.

    -   So he thinks

-   He is free for retreat next week

Question

1.  Investigator question

    a.  Ask question about changing behavior after seen the first folder
        (good to think about the environment)

    b.  Good at speaking and communicating his thoughts.

    c.  “It’s good to put sensitive folders together.”

    d.  If they are not together, there are 4 possibilities that the
        investigator finds a folder, but if they are together there are
        3 possibilities that the investigator finds it.

    e.  Correctly reaches the ½ answer.

2.  D

    a.  What factors go into your decision at any point

    b.  Approximately 10.5 minus the value you are thinking of losing.
        When the current value is around 200, he would stop there.

    c.  He would compute 1 + 2 + … + 20 = 210 (good at mental math)

    d.  He would divide that by 19 since all the possibilities are
        equally likely to happen -> To calculate the expectation.

    e.  The answer was very comprehensive and walked through the
        calculations explain each step.

    f.  SECOND PART

    g.  (19/20)^10 power . At the end he will have around 200, but given
        that this game lasts 18-20 steps, he can compute around .

        i.  Each round he expects the winning to be 10.5, which means
            that he will stop on average after 18-20 rounds based on the
            200 stopping limit.

        ii. The final expected value is

            1.  Just states out the expectation formula doing each
                probability of every value.

            2.  PL = (19/20)^19 * 10.5 * 19 = 1/e * 10.5 * 19 ≈ 70

            3.  Since you can’t lose by rolling 20 after the first turn

            4.  D

    h.  THIRD PART

    i.  Suppose you have to choose the number of times to roll the die
        before the game starts, what would you do?

        i.  For sure roll less than 20 roles, for sure roll 10-15 rolls.

        ii. Roll 10-15 roles

3.  Kitty Wang

    a.  Resume:
        https://drive.google.com/open?id=1eE28kZqaZal45jN2Oi2xEHr2aurhLfZA

    b.  Intro/behavioral (Juji)

        i.  Why quant/HUQT?

            1.  Learned about derivatives over the summer.

            2.  He thought it was something overly complex and from the
                HFAC Quant club he was able to learn a lot more and he
                likes the vibe of the club so he wants to be part of it.

        ii. Community

            1.  Natives at Harvard

                a.  Likes going to meeting. He is from the southeast
                    chapel in north carolina which is different from the
                    other regions.

                b.  

            2.  Seems chill, he said he got “freshman quaded”

        iii. Other clubs you are involved in

             1.  Part of the rugby team.

             2.  HFAC Quant

                 a.  Attending lectures

                 b.  Trading games

        iv. Commitment to the club.

            1.  Sh

    c.  Coupon collector (Doris)

        i.  Part 1: How many boxes to make a complete set?

            1.  Gets the probabilities really quickly

                a.  Thinks abt it as a tree of probabilities

            2.  Gets correct answer with minimal hints

            3.  Has not taken STAT 110

        ii. Part 2: Fixed number of boxes, how many expected distinct
            coupons?

            1.  Gets hint to think about n serial boxes

            2.  Is stumped by the n being a variables

            3.  When asked “what is the probability that coupon one
                never appears in 10 boxes?” he gets it correctly.

    d.  Easy die (Doris)

        i.  Part 1 (intuitive answer)

            1.  If you role a 1 on the six sided die

                a.  If you roll a 2 there is a 1/10 chance of making
                    nothing. 9/10 would at least be 2 or higher.

            2.  Walks through a tree of possibilities.

            3.  Good at quick math and estimation. Very numerical.

            4.  Around 4 to 5 threshold he gets it right. Doris explains
                the thought process in terms of expected value. Correct
                is 4 or lower is a reroll and 5 or up you keep.

        ii. Part 2 (calculating threshold)

            1.  

    e.  Mcdonald's (Doris) - skipped

        i.  Coin flips (3 coins)

        ii. Coin flips (20 coins)

        iii. Chicken nuggets

    f.  Vibes (Doris):

        i.  Her love language is acts of service.

        ii. One of her friends wanted hot water but not tea, so she got
            an electric kettle and went to her dorm and set it up.


1.  


CHIN 141 Introduction Worksheet (2)

Part 1: Listen to and repeat the words/expressions in the recording of
‘Introduction2 Recording.’ They are in the handout given today in class:
A. 5 tones, D. pinyin combination, F. Practice: Pinyin and tones).

Part 2: Listen to the words/expressions in Recording Part2. Write down
the English and pinyin with tones for each item. You can check the
handout how to write the pinyin and tone for each item.

+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
|       | English meaning               | pīnyīn                        |
+=======+===============================+===============================+
| 1.    | younger brother               | dìdì                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 2.    | green                         | lǜ                            |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 3.    | hamburger                     | hànbǎobāo                     |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 4.    | cold                          | lěng                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 5.    | older brother                 | gēgē                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 6.    | younger sister                | jiějiě                        |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 7.    | mango                         | mángguǒ                       |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 8.    | love                          | ài                            |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 9.    | dog                           | gǒu                           |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 10.   | U.S.A.                        | měiguó                        |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 11.   | hungry                        | è                             |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 12.   | maternal grandmother          | pópo                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 13.   | paternal grandfather          | yéye                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 14.   | tofu (the food)               | dòufǔ                         |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 15.   | yellow                        | huáng                         |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 16.   | cat                           | māo                           |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+


CHIN 141 Introduction Worksheet (2)

Part 1: Listen to and repeat the words/expressions in the recording of
‘Introduction2 Recording.’ They are in the handout given today in class:
A. 5 tones, D. pinyin combination, F. Practice: Pinyin and tones).

Part 2: Listen to the words/expressions in Recording Part2. Write down
the English and pinyin with tones for each item. You can check the
handout how to write the pinyin and tone for each item.

+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
|       | English meaning               | pīnyīn                        |
+=======+===============================+===============================+
| 1.    | younger brother               | dìdi                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 2.    | green                         | lǜ                            |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 3.    | hamburger                     | hànbǎobāo                     |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 4.    | cold                          | lěng                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 5.    | older brother                 | gēge                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 6.    | younger sister                | jiějiě                        |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 7.    | mango                         | mángguǒ                       |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 8.    | love                          | ài                            |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 9.    | dog                           | gǒu                           |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 10.   | U.S.A.                        | měiguó                        |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 11.   | hungry                        | è                             |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 12.   | grandmother                   | pópo                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 13.   | grandfather                   | yéye                          |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 14.   | tofu (the food)               | dòufǔ                         |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 15.   | yellow                        | huáng                         |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 16.   | cat                           | māo                           |
+-------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+


Dear Admissions Committee,

It is a great pleasure to recommend Iñaki Arango. Over the 6 years that
I knew him as his teacher and as the head of Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) studies at ORT Belgrano High School in
Buenos Aires, I watched him grow from a shy and quiet student into an
outgoing and confident young man. He was not only one of our sharpest
students but also one of our most committed– to his projects, to his
teams, to the school, and to his friends.

Iñaki’s enthusiasm for technology and innovation was palpable from the
moment I met him when he first visited the school with his father and I
showed him some of the projects our students were working on. Then, on
his very first day of school, he took himself up to the ICT floor to see
what we were doing. He showed such genuine interest in our projects that
even though he was a first-year student, we invited him to join our LEGO
Robotics Competition team. He demonstrated a mature ability to both
adapt to his team and to collaborate with students much older than he.
The following year, we invited him to our year-long mini-submarines
workshop, and thanks to his patient persistence, the team he led was the
only one that managed to complete its submarine by the end of the
workshop.

We were very proud to have Iñaki represent our school in various
national and international Olympiads, as he earned a bronze medal at the
national level in the Biology Olympiad, a gold medal at the national
level in the Science Olympiad, a bronze medal at the international level
in the Science Olympiad, as well as a silver medal at the national level
in the IT Olympiad. In spite of the time he dedicated to preparing for
and participating in the competitions, he always maintained his
excellent academic performance: he consistently was one of the top 5 in
his class and, in fact, held the highest GPA his last two years.

For his academic performance, he was also chosen for the first group of
students that worked on a project sponsored by Satellogic, an
Argentine/US satellite company, for which they developed an application
to integrate infrared and visible light images. Iñaki worked well with 3
other teammates in the development of the software. He also took charge
of interfacing with Satellogic and defining project requirements and
timelines. Thanks to his leadership and the group’s collaboration, his
team was rewarded with a trip to Satellogic’s factory in Uruguay to
discuss the software with its engineers.

Beyond his academic achievements, Iñaki also became an integral member
of our school community. In addition to volunteering during lunch to
help students who had fallen behind, he organized and led Science and IT
Olympiad study groups where he coached younger students who found his
explanations easier to understand than those of some teachers and his
approach very fun. Because he both cared about the curriculum and was
also willing to question established norms, Iñaki was proactive about
suggesting changes so that our college-level material would be more
understandable for high school students. Trusting his judgment, we also
decided to introduce parts of a new course he designed, Architectures of
Web Applications, into another course: Emerging Technologies. Finally,
in his last year he applied for and was selected to be a project manager
for student-initiated projects, and the teams that requested Iñaki as
their project manager worked on projects ranging from a blockchain
business solution to a navigation app to assist people with
disabilities. His capacity to network and to clearly and convincingly
convey ideas proved very useful in acquiring clients and forging
connections that boosted the popularity and reach of the projects he
managed.

Iñaki developed as a student, as an innovator, and as a leader during
his six years at ORT. He won the respect and trust of his peers and the
faculty, not only for his vast skill and knowledge but also because he
was such a pleasure to interact with. I believe any college will be
fortunate to have Iñaki as a member of the student body, and I offer my
wholehearted endorsement of his application.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you require further
information about Iñaki.

Best regards,

Darío Mischener

Head of the ICT Track

ORT Belgrano High School


I am very pleased to write this letter of recommendation for Iñaki
Arango, who designed the software for Reindi, a platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities. I received my MBA from the Amos Tuck School of Business at
Dartmouth College, and in my 25+ years of international management
experience, I’ve interviewed and worked with many junior professionals
around the world. Frankly, it’s rare to find such competent product
managers that young. Iñaki embodies insightful intelligence and
technological savvy together with human warmth and compassion, a
combination that fuels his drive to find technological solutions to
real-life problems of real people.

In 2019, I began developing an application to help parents in Argentina
manage and track all documentation for children with disabilities, and I
was looking for software developers familiar with blockchain technology,
which were hard to find. I contacted easily over 100 groups from around
the world, and I finally connected with Iñaki through Y Combinator’s
Startup School, Silicon Valley’s most well-known startup accelerator.
When I contacted Pöhl, the startup where Iñaki and his two co-founders
developed a solution to facilitate file management with blockchain,
Iñaki responded immediately to my message, and we arranged to meet at a
local Starbucks. I was quite surprised when three 17-year-old high
school students presented themselves, but they were so articulate and
smart that I was nothing less than extremely impressed.

Iñaki was clearly the team leader, and he understood my requirements
very quickly and immediately suggested several ideas, even though he had
no previous experience with health information processing. I asked for a
proposal to develop a proof of concept and a prototype of the
application, a request that had been turned down a few weeks earlier by
a team with 10+ years of tech experience because they felt they could
not develop such a challenging solution. Preparing a proposal takes
significant work at a contractor’s expense. Iñaki returned a few days
later with a project road map and a proposal for me to review and
approve. What’s more, he presented himself as Project Leader and
negotiated the fees in a mature and professional manner. I decided to
hire Iñaki, and he quickly assembled a team. He also recommended a
project management and collaboration tool and the technology to use, and
allocated resources very effectively.

As our team grew, I also noticed Iñaki was highly looked up to by his
teammates. Whenever they ran into difficulties or weren’t sure what to
do, they would always turn to Iñaki – and he would always have an answer
or be willing to take the time to see how the problem could be solved.
Iñaki’s respect for his teammates was reflected in his willingness to
share his knowledge and help them learn and grow.

Developing the software for Reindi was not without its bumps in the
road, but Iñaki was able to shift gears completely when necessary. Our
first version was a health-insurance focused blockchain app. However, it
became clear that health insurance companies were not terribly
interested in making services more easily accessible. Our second and
final version, therefore, was parent-focused, and much more efficient
not only for parents but also for health insurance companies and the
Ministry of Health. Iñaki was able to both explain the program to health
professionals, health-insurance executives, and parents in language that
they could understand as well as incorporate their comments and
observations into the functioning of the application.

Iñaki is very resourceful, and his attitude is that everything has a
solution or there is some way to develop one. He works under pressure
with a calm and ease that inspires confidence in both his team and his
clients. He is a natural leader and naturally responsible, he delivers
according to schedule, and he knows what he is talking about. I would
like to add that I myself have 2 children with learning disabilities and
Iñaki’s sincere empathy with the challenges that I and other parents
whose children have special needs face and his commitment to help was
truly heartwarming.

Iñaki is truly a gem of a human being, and he will be an asset for any
fellowship community as a student, as a friend, and as a future alum. I
am sure he will go on to introduce innovative advances in his field and
touch people’s lives throughout his professional life. It is therefore
with nothing less than my strongest conviction that I recommend him for
the Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellows program.

I will be happy to answer any questions you might have regarding Iñaki.

Sincerely,

Jose Maria Aberg Cobo

Tel. +54 9 11 3164-6600


Financial Aid Appeal for the 2021-2022 year

During the year 2020, the Argentinian Government imposed a new 35% tax
over the previous 30% tax over the purchase of foreign currencies for
saving and payment purposes.

This document explains the impact of the new tax on the cost of
attendance to Rice and provides supporting documentation detailing the
specifics of the new law.

Impact

Supporting Documentation

New 35% tax

Link to the decree:
https://www.boletinoficial.gob.ar/detalleAviso/primera/235038/20200916

Screenshot of the section detailing the tax amount to be perceived:

[]

Translation of the aforementioned section:

DETERMINATION OF THE AMOUNT TO BE PERCEIVED

Section 5 - The amount to be perceived will be determined by applying
the rate of THIRTY-FIVE PERCENT (35%) on the amounts in pesos that, for
each case, are detailed in section 39 of Law No. 27,541, its
modification and complementary regulations.

http://servicios.infoleg.gob.ar/infolegInternet/anexos/330000-334999/333564/norma.htm

[]

Section 39 - The tax established in section 35 will be determined by
applying the rate of thirty percent (30%), according to the following
detail.

a)  On the total amount of each transaction reached, in the case of
    transactions included in items a), b), c) and d) of the first
    paragraph of the aforementioned section;

b)  On the price, net of taxes and fees, of each operation reached in
    the case of operations included in subparagraph e) of the first
    paragraph of section 35.

In the case of operations expressed in foreign currency, the conversion
must be made to its equivalent in local currency, applying the selling
exchange rate that, for the currency in question, is set by the Banco de
la Nación Argentina at the close of the last immediate business day
prior to the date of issuance of the summary, settlement and/or invoice
or equivalent document.

[]

Section 35 - It should be established on an emergency basis, for the
term of five (5) fiscal periods from the date of entry into force of
this law, a tax that will be applied throughout the territory of the
Nation on the following operations:

a)  Purchase of banknotes and currencies in foreign currency -including
    traveler's checks- for storage or without a specific destination
    linked to the payment of obligations in the terms of the regulations
    in force in the exchange market, carried out by residents of the
    country;

b)  Currency exchange carried out by financial entities on behalf and
    order of the tenant or borrower purchaser for the payment of the
    acquisition of goods or services and leases of services carried out
    abroad, which are paid through the use of credit, purchase and debit
    cards included in the system provided for in law 25,065 and any
    other equivalent means of payment determined by the regulations,
    including those related to withdrawals or cash advances made abroad.
    Likewise, purchases made through portals or virtual sites and / or
    any other method by which operations are perfected, through distance
    purchases, in foreign currency are included;

c)  Currency exchange carried out by financial entities for the payment,
    on behalf and order of the resident contractor in the country of
    services provided by non-resident subjects in the country, which are
    paid through the use of credit, purchase and credit cards, included
    in the system provided for in law 25,065 and any other equivalent
    means of payment determined by regulation;

d)  Acquisition of services abroad contracted through travel and tourism
    agencies - wholesalers and / or retailers - in the country.

e)  Acquisition of land, air and water transport services for passengers
    with destinations outside the country, to the extent that for the
    payment of the operation the single and free foreign exchange market
    must be accessed for the purpose of acquiring the corresponding
    foreign currency in the terms established by the regulations.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: Please indicate your field of specialization and briefly outline
your academic plans at Harvard College.

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Topics:

    -   Computer Science

    -   Rice New Energy Fund

    -   Energy Grid Analysis

-   DO MORE RESEARCH ON HARVARD COLLEGE

-   Outline:

    -   2012 Startup Chile:
        https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=42106

    -   Cross-courses with MIT

    -   http://yiling.seas.harvard.edu/

    -   https://finale.seas.harvard.edu/

    -   http://yannai.gonch.name/scientific/

    -   INCREDIBLE https://nali.seas.harvard.edu/

    -   Econ cs lab

    -   http://procaccia.info/

    -   https://www.seas.harvard.edu/person/salil-vadhan

        -   https://crcs.seas.harvard.edu/

    -   https://cyber.harvard.edu/people/jzittrain

    -   

    -   https://embeddedethics.seas.harvard.edu/

Version 1

I intend to choose computer science as my field of concentration and
follow the Mind, Brain, and Behaviour program based on the honors
curriculum. It will provide a solid technical foundation as well as
allow me to explore human behavior and society.

Sophomore year I would begin with Psychology 1, as well as take the
second requirement: Neuroscience 80. In addition, I would take the CS
requirement Intro to Algorithms and their Limitations, as well as Design
of Useful and Usable Interactive System, to obtain a formal introduction
to user experience design. Based on my experience with the two MBB
courses, I will decide whether to continue pursuing that program or
choose to specialize in a different area within the pure CS
concentration.

Since I am interested in learning more about the ways in which
technology can have socially beneficial applications, I plan on becoming
involved in research carried out by faculty within the EconCS group or
the Center for Research on Computation and Society. I believe their work
combining computer simulations with markets and social systems could
have a positive impact and will allow me to begin to understand how
states can leverage technology to make better decisions.

I am also interested in collaborating with professor Na Li (黎娜), the
co-founder and Chief Scientific Advisor for Carbonara, a startup working
on software solutions to address the growing decarbonization industry,
on projects related to energy transition and decarbonization. I am
especially interested in her research that is part of the NSF award
“Optimization, Control, and Incentive Design for Power Networks with
High Levels of Distributed Energy Resources”. Making sure that our
energy networks are reliable, efficient and able to address the needs of
everyone is going to be extremely important in the coming years with the
huge growth in energy demand.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: Activities that interest me

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

Version 1


School: Harvard University

Prompt: Did any time elapse between high school and college or have you
left any school or college voluntarily for an extended period of time?
Please give a detailed explanation.

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Gap year

-   Venture capital

-   Startups

-   Recyco

Version 1

I graduated from high school in December 2019, right before the onset of
the pandemic. As I explained in my COVID essay, the US embassy scheduled
my visa interview for well after the beginning of classes in September
2020, so I decided to defer and enter Rice University in the fall of
2021.

Right after graduating, I traveled to Neuquén to visit my uncle and
cousins. From there I went to Bahía Blanca, where I had the chance to
spend a month living with my 102-year-old grandmother.

When I returned to Buenos Aires in February 2020, I received spinal
fusion surgery as treatment for my worsening scoliosis condition: 12 of
my vertebrae were fused with a titanium rod that reduced flexibility and
restricted my movement. During the first month, I recovered from not
being able to move at all to slowly being able to get up and walk. I
continued recovering over the following 10 months, during which I could
not do any strenuous physical activity.

I used the time I had to spend at home to continue developing an app
that made it easier for parents in Argentina with children with
disabilities to access health services. This app is now used by the
founder and soon to be tested by ten families, five doctors, and a small
insurance firm. I also started Recyco, a recycling SaaS startup. Big
consumer product companies, like Coca-Cola and Nestlé, want to increase
the recycled plastic content in their products but lack the empty used
packaging required for the recycling process, and their attempts to
collect plastic packaging rather than let it go to landfills were
failing. We built a software platform that allowed companies to manage
their collection efforts digitally. This was paired with a
consumer-facing application that made recycling easier by providing
instructions, locations of stands, and even a home pick-up system.

Simultaneuously, Recyco was accepted into Rice Ventures, an accelerator
program hosted by Rice’s startup club. Through Rice Ventures I met a
Marine veteran working on an app connecting veterans to resources they
needed but that were not readily available to them. After interviewing
other veterans together to learn about their experience, I joined his
startup, Rutd, as interim CTO and kickstarted the development of the
veteran-facing app and an NGO management dashboard.

Towards the end of 2020, I started working remotely part-time at Romulus
Capital, a VC firm based in Boston as a Venture Fellow. The firm’s three
partners, as well as most working at the firm, were Harvard alumni.
During that time I expanded my knowledge of the US startup ecosystem, as
well as what a company's operational and financial lifecycle looks like.

In May 2021 I was promoted at Romulus to a full-time associate. I
leveraged my deal management experience to begin sourcing and running
due diligence for companies in the Construction Tech and Real Estate
Tech.

In July 2021 I moved to Houston and spent 2 weeks living with my uncle
and my cousins before starting my studies at Rice.

Discard Pile

After initial feedback we realized that not only companies but also
consumers could benefit from access to the platform, so we reached out
to local governments.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: Briefly discuss one book that has strongly influenced you.

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Basic answer: How to Avoid a Climate Disaster, by Bill Gates.

    -   Tie it back to the rice new energy fund

-   Or could be the lean startup, and I talk about the startups I’m
    interested in here.

Version 1

A book that has strongly influenced me has been How to Avoid Climate
Disaster, by Bill Gates. Before having read it, I had always thought
about climate change as something serious, but a problem that other
people were working on and would definitely solve in time. The book made
me realize how far behind we are and how close we are to missing our own
emission and waste reduction targets, which could result in the collapse
of society as we know it.

Something started growing in me after reading that book: a sense of
urgency, a wish to join the discussion and to become involved in helping
build a greener future. I reached out to Arlei Silva, a professor at
Rice specializing in machine learning on graphs, to learn how computer
science could be applied to tackle climate change. I found out about
energy grid simulation and optimization software but realized I did not
yet possess the mathematical background required to understand how they
worked. That same day I registered for all the math classes I needed for
the fall 2022 semester, but I was still impatient.

I wanted to do more. That is when I started thinking about ways of
getting other people involved at Rice. I thought of starting an
organization, but most clubs suffer the same problem: people join but
then don’t attend most meetings, and little progress is actually made.
My friend and I, therefore, decided to start a hedge fund focused on
energy transition companies. We thought students would be initially
attracted to the possibility of researching and managing investments in
public stocks, and throughout the process, they would learn about
different subindustries within energy transition and possible career
paths.

Half of the annual profits would be reinvested into the fund and half
would go towards scholarships for students who want to pursue unpaid
internships in the energy transition sector.

Our initial idea panned out. We raised $150k from City bankers during
the fall semester, and 18 students from all years and majors joined as
analysts for the fund. Some of the upper-class students will be joining
energy transition investment bank groups, renewables companies, and
GreenTech firms this summer.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: What are your current postgraduate/career plans?

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Topics:

    -   Venture Capital

    -   Give back to Argentina

    -   Startups

-   VC Plan

    -   Network with investment funds to find interesting and impactful
        companies to do summer internships with

    -   After graduating working as a VC / in a startup to develop
        myself professionally

    -   Probably founding my own company at some point

    -   Coming back to Argentina to give back, potentially as a
        politician

Version 1

Upon graduating, I plan to join a high-growth construction tech, carbon
capture, smart energy grid technologies, or genetic engineering startup
as an early-stage employee so I can gain experience in these fields and
continue to gain experience with startups.

I then intend to pursue a graduate degree, though I will have to see
whether I need further computer science training, or an MBA to
strengthen my entrepreneurial foundation (or both).

Since I am a generally curious person, I eventually hope to become a VC
investor as well because this role fits my personality very well. I am
very much drawn to the journey of discovery that performing due
diligence on a company offers, through which I will learn about niche
industries, discover up-and-coming technologies, and have the chance to
collaborate with people pushing the boundaries of business, science, and
technology.

I intend to operate in Argentina so that I can contribute to its growth
by creating jobs, attracting foreign investments, stimulating the
exports of intellectual property, or helping in any other way I can. I
would also apply my skills and knowledge in the public sector if I have
the opportunity.

These are my plans as of now. I am certainly open to discovering new
industries and career options, and to meeting people from all over the
world who can influence my career path. I look forward to having my mind
opened at Harvard, and I can’t wait to see what the future holds.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: What alternatives to transferring to Harvard are you
considering?

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Topics:

    -   Recyco

    -   Venture Capital

    -   Rice New Energy Fund

    -   Energy Grid Analysis

-   I’m not sure if the mean life-wise or saying “MIT, Yale and
    Stanford”. Make it certain that I will continue to study. It is not
    “I’m transferring to harvard or I’m not gonna study anymore”. (Maybe
    include VC plan) -> Specified in postgraduate career plans

Version 1

Though Harvard is my first choice, I am also applying to transfer to
MIT, Yale, and Stanford.

If it is not possible to transfer, then I will stay at Rice, where I
will specialize in machine learning and neuroscience. I also plan to
join Xaq Pitkow’s Lab for the Algorithmic Brain, which is currently
working on learning how our brain processes information in order to
apply those findings to improve the training and execution performance
of machine learning algorithms.


School: Harvard University

Prompt: Briefly, please indicate the most influential factors in your
decision to attend your present college (for example, location, cost,
size of student body, only option, special program offered, Early
Decision plan, etc.)

Word limit: Unknown

Outline

-   Financial Aid

-   Family

-   Small School

Version 1

I was attracted to Rice’s small student body and tight-knit community. I
believed the residential college system would facilitate making new
friends and becoming quickly involved with the community, especially as
I transitioned between countries, languages, and education systems. I
was also attracted to the low student-to-faculty ratio and to the
cognitive science major, which combines computer science, neuroscience,
philosophy, linguistics, and psychology.

University education in the US is prohibitively expensive for my family,
which is affected by Argentina’s economic instability and ridiculously
high inflation. Rice offered the best financial package of all the
universities where I was accepted and set the terms of my aid so that I
could appeal at the beginning of each year with updated information
regarding my family’s ever-changing circumstances.

Since I am the first person in my family to come to the US to pursue
undergraduate studies, my parents wanted me to have a safety net nearby.
An important reason for attending Rice was that my uncle and cousins
lived in Houston at the time. My uncle still lives here, but my cousins
have moved to the Northeast (one of them is currently attending Harvard
Law School).


Personal Statement

Two years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
learn as much as we can, connect with people from all over, develop
ourselves professionally, and then return to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice University.
However, I have come to realize its culture is not the best fit for me.
To reach my goals, I need an atmosphere like Harvard’s, with a balance
between students who are passionate about technological innovation and
who are anxious to materialize their innovations through startups.

Harvard also has a larger Latin American student community, meaning I
will have more chances to connect with classmates who know firsthand
what life is like in the region and who share my commitment to improving
conditions there. Moreover, Harvard offers more financial aid to
international students, which would alleviate the financial stress my
family is experiencing due to Argentina's inflation and economic
instability.

While working remotely during my gap year for Romulus Capital, a VC firm
in Boston, I had the chance to collaborate on new-generation GIS
startups and on an analysis of top performing construction tech
companies with various Harvard students and alumni. Witnessing their
expertise and insight, I realized Harvard would be the best place for
me.

The other influential factor was a research article I came across in the
HBR Store from 2012, comparing Startup Chile with an up-and-coming
version of Silicon Valley within South America. I want to be in a place
that a decade ago was already able to recognize the value of Latin
American accelerators and entrepreneurs and what they can do for the
region and the world. I can’t wait to join the Harvard College Ventures
and live out its vision “to connect, collaborate, and innovate.”

I want to become involved in an ecosystem that believes in its students
and provides so much support to companies incubated at the university,
like WHOOP and CarePort Health. The access to thousands of alumni in the
VC/startup space will accelerate my development as an entrepreneur and
investor. Furthermore, I plan to continue developing my own recycling
startup, Recyco, and to participate in the Harvard Climate
Entrepreneur’s Circle incubation program.

In addition to the high-level coursework I will receive through the CS
major, I know Harvard’s strong liberal arts program will allow me to
gain the understanding I need of how Argentina and other developing
countries fit into the global economy. I’ll be able to take courses like
Latin America and the United States (HIST 1511), so I can supplement my
technical training with a foundation in international political economy.
And, of course, I intend to be active in the Harvard Argentine Student
Society.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume I must love soccer, asados
and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I actually
do, but what many probably don’t know is that since I was thirteen I
have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic inflation.
Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at
least get derailed, even if you work hard. This very situation, however,
also makes us appreciate the urgency of addressing problems and makes us
experts at thinking outside the box and finding cheaper, simpler, and
more practical solutions so that everyone can benefit from them.

At Harvard, I look forward to contributing this perspective as I advance
my knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers. I am eager
to learn from their experiences and make life-long friends.


School: MIT

Prompt: If you think that additional information about your family will
give us a more thorough impression of your background, please include it
here.

Word limit: 250 words

Outline

-   I wake up at five o’clock…

-   Tell story about grandad and mom and generational improvment

Version 1

When I am still in the lab working on a problem set at 4 AM, my parents’
story gives me the push I need to keep working hard.

My mom moved every couple months from one small settlement to another
across the south of Argentina because my granddad was a road worker who
helped build the now vast network of interstates and highways connecting
cities in Patagonia. At that time, though, very few people lived in that
region, so my mom and uncle lived in either temporary settlements by the
side of the road or very small towns. My grandma was a teacher for the
workers’ children, who were all grouped together since they weren’t
enough to be split into grades. She inspired me to stay after school and
teach younger students about chemistry, physics, and programming.

My grandparents made a huge effort to put my mom through college. When
she graduated in biochemistry, my granddad was so proud that he wanted
to hang a sign outside their house with my mom’s name and her newly
obtained degree.

My parents both have worked extremely hard to give me a much better life
growing up than they ever had. They inculcated the importance of
education in me, and they continue to inspire me every single day. Part
of my hunger to learn, grow, and succeed stems from wanting to give back
to them, and wanting to give my kids an even better experience than I
had.


School: MIT

Prompt: Please tell us more about your cultural background and identity
in the space below.

Word limit: 150 words

Version 1

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume I must love soccer, asados
and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I actually
do, but what many probably don’t know is that since I was thirteen I
have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic inflation.
Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at
least get derailed, even if you work hard.

This very situation, however, also makes us appreciate the urgency of
addressing problems and makes us experts at thinking outside the box and
finding cheaper, simpler, and more practical solutions that everyone can
benefit from. At MIT, I look forward to contributing this perspective as
I advance my knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers. I
am also eager to learn from their experiences and make life-long
friends.


School: MIT

Prompt: At MIT, we bring people together to better the lives of others.
MIT students work to improve their communities in different ways, from
tackling the world’s biggest challenges to being a good friend. Describe
one way in which you have contributed to your community, whether in your
family, the classroom, your neighborhood, etc.

Word limit: 250 words

Version 1

After reading Bill Gates’ How to Avoid Climate Disaster, I realized how
far behind we are to reaching emission and waste reduction targets,
which could result in the collapse of society as we know it.

With a sense of urgency to do something to help build a greener future,
I registered for all the math classes I needed to understand energy grid
simulation and optimization software. However, that wasn’t enough.

I wanted to get others at Rice involved. I thought of starting an
organization, but most clubs suffer the same problem: people join but
then don’t attend most meetings, and little progress is actually made.
My friend and I, therefore, decided to start a hedge fund focused on
energy transition companies. Students would be attracted to the
opportunity to research and manage investments in public stocks, and
throughout the process, they would learn about different subindustries
within energy transition and possible career paths.

Furthermore, we decided that half of the annual profits would be
reinvested into the fund and half would go towards scholarships for
students who want to pursue unpaid internships in the energy transition
sector.

Our initial idea panned out. We raised $150k from City bankers during
the fall semester, and 18 students from all years and majors joined as
analysts for the fund. Some of the upper-class students will be joining
energy transition investment bank groups, renewables companies, and
green tech firms this summer.

I contributed to both my immediate college community and the larger
Earth community.


School: MIT

Prompt: How does MIT align with your goals (e.g., academic, personal,
career, extracurricular, etc.)?

Word limit: 250 words

Ideas

-   Include research or labs in

    -   Vertical AI Community of Research: Stefanie Jegelka

        -   https://www.csail.mit.edu/research/vertical-ai-community-research

        -   https://www.csail.mit.edu/person/stefanie-jegelka

        -   https://www.csail.mit.edu/research/representation-learning-and-reasoning-graph-neural-networks

    -   MIT-Watson IBM AI Lab

        -   https://mitibmwatsonailab.mit.edu/category/graph-deep-learning/

    -   Specializes in machine learning on graphs: Keyulu Xu

        -   https://people.csail.mit.edu/keyulux/

    -   MIT Lincoln Lab

        -   https://www.ll.mit.edu/r-d/homeland-protection/artificial-intelligence-software-architectures-and-algorithms

        -   https://news.mit.edu/2021/lincoln-laboratory-convenes-top-network-scientists-graph-exploitation-symposium-0721

-   Investment fund (private/public)

    -   MIT Energy Insitute (research, learning, volunteering)

        -   https://energy.mit.edu/about/

-   VC clubs

    -   https://contrary.com/mit

    -   Pick from this^ list (there are so many clubs)

        -   StartLabs

        -   Sloan Business Club

        -   https://www.mitentrepreneurship.org/

        -   MIT iTeams

        -   Hacking Arts Annual Festival

        -   Global Entrepreneurship Lab | MIT Sloan

        -   MIT D-Lab

        -   Entrepreneurs in Residence - The Martin Trust Center for MIT
            Entrepreneurship

        -   Gordon-MIT Engineering Leadership Program

        -   The Byte — MIT Undergraduate Association

        -   MIT Global Startup Labs

        -   MIT Orbit

-   Classes

    -   Entrepreneurship courses

        -   http://web.mit.edu/2.009/www/index.html

        -   http://startup.csail.mit.edu/

        -   https://news.mit.edu/2015/preparing-mit-students-lead-teams-and-startup-ventures-1218

        -   http://textbooksearch.mit.edu/class/15.3781

        -   https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-390-new-enterprises-spring-2013/

        -   http://textbooksearch.mit.edu/class/15.911

        -   http://web.mit.edu/21w.789/www/

        -   https://orbit.mit.edu/classes#collapse-subject-2021FAEC.074

        -   https://gelp.mit.edu/students/engineering-innovation-design

        -   https://orbit.mit.edu/classes/starting-up-new-technology-based-business-enterprises-at-mit-EC.075

        -   https://orbit.mit.edu/classes#collapse-subject-2021FA15.360

        -   https://innovation.mit.edu/education-community/eiminor/innovation-engineering/

    -   Pure technical courses

        -   http://catalog.mit.edu/degree-charts/computer-science-engineering-course-6-3/

    -   Help understand Argentina

        -   https://history.mit.edu/subjects/from-coca-to-cocaine-drug-economies-in-latin-america/

        -   https://history.mit.edu/subjects/socialism-in-latin-america-from-che-guevara-to-hugo-chavez/

-   Meet more people interested in going back to Latin America to help
    fix the situation

    -   Club Argentino en MIT

        -   http://web.mit.edu/clubarg/www/

    -   Next generation Latino Leaders

        -   http://lucha.mit.edu/

    -   Society of Hispanic Profesional Engineers

        -   http://shpe.mit.edu/#/

    -   MAES (Hispanic Engineers)

        -   http://maes.mit.edu/#/home

Version 1

I can’t wait to be active in MIT’s StartupLabs and live out its mission
of catalyzing students “to bring technical innovations to society
through entrepreneurship”. I want to join this ecosystem that provides
so much support to ideas incubated at the university, like GreentownLabs
and Biobot Analytics (MITdesignX, YCombinator). Access to thousands of
alumni in the VC/startup space plus advisors through the Entrepreneurs
in Residence program will accelerate my development as an entrepreneur
and investor. Furthermore, I plan to continue developing my own
recycling startup, Recyco, and to participate in the Lightspeed Summer
Fellowship.

The combination of topics in Computer Science, Economics, and Data
Science (6-14) fits my goals perfectly. Through Computer Science classes
I will learn how to leverage the power of computers to build solutions.
Economics and game theory will allow me to assess the long-term impact
of potential solutions and through Data Science I will obtain actionable
insights from the tremendous quantity of data available when ideating,
improving, and rolling out solutions.

At MIT I will also gain the understanding I need of how developing
countries like Argentina fit into the global economy. Exposure to new
regions through the Global Startup Labs and D-Lab and courses like
21H.173 will supplement my technical training with a foundation in
international political economy.

I am eager to develop myself technically and professionally at MIT so I
can contribute to the growth of Argentina as an entrepreneur, whether by
attracting foreign investment, creating jobs, or exporting intellectual
property.

Besides exposure to new regions through the Global Startup Labs and
D-Lab, I’ll be able to take courses like “Socialism in Latin America,
from Che Guevara to Hugo Chavez”.

In addition to the high-level coursework, I look forward to engaging in
cutting-edge Machine Learning (ML) research. I am fascinated by Dr.
Priya Panda’s algorithm-hardware co-design approach used in the
Intelligent Computing Lab, especially the CMOS-based Deep Neural Network
accelerators. With the ever-increasing size and complexity of ML
algorithms, we will need custom processors designed specifically to
accelerate ML training and execution, such as those being built at the
lab.


School: MIT

Prompt: No application can meet the needs of every individual. If you
think that additional information or material will give us a more
thorough impression of you, please include it here.

Word limit: 500 words

Version 1

“Are you Iñaki??” José asked, surprised to see a high school student. He
has two children with Down syndrome and was exhausted from wrestling
with Argentina’s health system to get the care his children need. He
knew he wasn’t the only parent in this situation with a child with a
disability. He had an idea for a solution and was looking for someone to
bring it to life.

He had reached out to dozens of anonymous users on an Argentinian
blockchain forum, and I was the first to respond. When I heard his
story, I was deeply saddened. I was determined to find a way to ensure
that all these families received the treatment they needed and to
simplify reimbursement, regardless of their geographic location or their
socioeconomic situation.

In the two years working with José to develop Reindi, a platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities, we have sat face to face with the CEOs of Argentina’s 3
biggest insurance companies. We have interviewed parents like José from
all around the country to better understand their situation. We went
from brainstorming to a functional, concrete app, currently used by José
and his two children, and soon to be tested by ten families, five
doctors, and a small insurance firm.

Reindi has taught me the value of technology, not only to solve problems
but to connect with people on a deeper level and to understand what is
most important in their lives. For me, nothing is as fulfilling as
building something from scratch, and watching how it positively impacts
their lives. The satisfaction this brings me is what I want to feel
every day for the rest of my life.

Deleted

OR

Reindi has, of course, taught me the value of technology. And the
satisfaction of connecting with people on a deeper level and building
something from scratch that addresses their most pressing troubles
and/or impacts what is most important in their lives is what I want to
feel every day for the rest of my life.

OR

Reindi has, of course, taught me the value of technology. But
entrepreneurship is so important to me because I want to connect with
people on a deeper level and address their most pressing troubles. The
satisfaction this brings me is what I want to feel every day for the
rest of my life.


School: MIT

Prompt: Tell us about a significant challenge you’ve faced or something
that didn’t go according to plan that you feel comfortable sharing. How
did you manage the situation?

Word limit: 250 words

Version 1

When I was 13, I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When I found out I was
going to have to wear a plastic vest around my torso for several years,
I started crying. The vest made me feel different, and suddenly running,
playing sports, and riding a bike were completely out of the question.
In the beginning, I would hyperventilate at random moments, but as I
learned to live with my situation, those episodes stopped.

When my spine stopped growing, I was able to take the vest off.
Unfortunately, I started experiencing strong back pain and was told that
my spine was pressing into my lungs and that my life was at risk if I
didn’t undergo spinal fusion surgery. It would alleviate my back pain,
but it would also impose limitations: I wouldn’t be able to exercise for
a year and would lose flexibility for life. That’s a weighty situation
to face at age 18, but I decided to go through with it and was operated
on after graduating from high school. During the first month, I
recovered from not being able to move at all to slowly being able to get
up and walk. After 10 months I could resume normal life, and I have
figured out how I can take care of my back.

Incorporating this condition into my daily life has taught me how it
feels to be different and recognize the massive importance of being
sensitive to the feelings and circumstances of others.

Version 2 (Full Story)

When I was in third grade, I spent three months undergoing MRIs, IQ, and
puzzle tests, among other evaluations because I used to cry every single
day. Doctors initially thought I suffered from a learning disability
because my grades had declined dramatically that year, but that turned
out to be just a consequence of a mood disorder.

Over the next five years, I went to a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and
an educational psychologist every week. By the end of the five years, I
was med and doctor free, and my condition was gone.

During those years I learned to approach life as if the cards I had been
dealt were the cards I wanted all along. I adopted a mentality of taking
in any problem or obstacle, understanding why it was there, and then
focusing on overcoming them to fulfill my objectives.

When I found out I had scoliosis and that I was going to have to wear a
plastic vest around my torso for years, I was sad at first. But then I
researched what I could do to improve my back health, and I started
going to the gym five days a week until it got better. And it did.

When I had to undergo emergency surgery due to my worsening condition
and was not able to move for days, again, I was persistent in attempting
to walk.

Even though this story started in third grade, it has marked the way I
think. It focuses me and gives me the energy to push forward.

A Combination:

When I was in third grade, I underwent MRIs, IQ, and puzzle tests, among
other evaluations because I cried every day. Over the next five years, I
went to a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and an educational psychologist
every week until my condition was resolved. Thus, early on I grew a
strong sense that problems are a part of life, they are not the final
statement about me or my future, and it is entirely possible to carry on
and succeed.

Thanks to this mindset, at age 13 I was able to accept the limitations
of wearing a plastic vest suddenly imposed by my scoliosis diagnosis
that ruled out running, playing sports, and riding a bike. I was
determined to get my back pain under control, so after researching
options, I started going to the gym five days a week.

Unfortunately, my spine eventually started pressing into my lungs. I had
to undergo spinal fusion surgery, which meant I wouldn’t be able to
exercise for a year and would lose flexibility for life. During the
first month, I recovered from not moving at all to slowly getting up and
walking. Determined to resume normal life, I adopted an intensive
swimming routine, and after 10 months I could carry out all daily
activities.

I approach life as if the cards I have been dealt are the cards I wanted
all along. I have developed a mentality of taking in any obstacle,
dealing with it, and then getting down to reaching my goals.

Old Duke Essay

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The doctor told me I
would have to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. The
vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt. It made me feel
different. I couldn’t go play outside because the heat would be
unbearable. I couldn’t run, play sports, or ride a bike because a fall
could hurt me considerably. I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently. It felt weird at
first. After years of having worn the vest, not having something
pressing on my chest felt liberating, but after a while, I started
experiencing strong back pain.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Old Harvard Essay

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled aside and was asked to explain the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Version 1

GET FROM DUKE AND ORIGINAL COLLEGES TEXT ON BACK AND FLESH OUT Maybe add
a bit more about mental health and how to play life with the deck you
are given


School: MIT

Prompt: Please discuss why you are considering transferring from your
current college or university.

Word limit: 250 words

Version 1

Two years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: come to the US, learn
as much as we can, connect with people from all over, develop ourselves
professionally, and then return to Argentina to help our country attain
sustainable growth.

My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice University.
However, I have come to realize its culture is not the best fit for me.
To reach my goals, I need an atmosphere like MIT’s, with a balance
between students who are passionate about technological innovation AND
who are anxious to materialize their innovations through startups.

MIT also has a larger Latin American student community, meaning I will
have more chances to connect with classmates who know firsthand what
life is like there and who share my commitment to the region. Moreover,
MIT offers more financial aid to international students, which would
alleviate the financial stress my family is experiencing due to
Argentina's inflation and economic instability.

While working remotely during my gap year for Romulus Capital, a VC firm
in Boston, I had the chance to collaborate on real estate startups with
various MIT students and alumni. Witnessing their expertise and insight,
I realized MIT would be the best place for me.


School: MIT

Prompt: Please tell us how you have spent each year since graduating
secondary (high) school. Exact dates for employment and extracurricular
activities may be given later in the applications.

Word limit: 400 words

Version 1

I graduated from high school in December 2019, right before the onset of
the pandemic. The US embassy scheduled my visa interview for well after
the beginning of classes in September 2020, so I decided to defer and
enter Rice University in the fall of 2021.

Right after graduating, I visited relatives in Neuquén. From there I
went to Bahía Blanca, where I spent a month living with my 102-year-old
grandmother.

When I returned to Buenos Aires in February 2020, I underwent spinal
fusion surgery as treatment for my worsening scoliosis condition. I used
the time I had to spend at home to recover to continue developing an app
that made it easier for parents in Argentina with children with
disabilities to access health services. This app is now used by the
founder and soon to be tested by ten families, five doctors, and a small
insurance firm.

I also started Recyco, a recycling SaaS startup. Big consumer product
companies, like Coca-Cola and Nestlé, want to increase the recycled
plastic content in their products but lack the empty used packaging
required for the recycling process, and their attempts to collect
plastic packaging were failing. We built a software platform that
allowed companies to manage their collection efforts digitally. This was
paired with a consumer-facing application that made recycling easier by
providing instructions, locations of stands, and even a home pick-up
system.

Simultaneously, Recyco was accepted into Rice Ventures, an accelerator
program hosted by Rice’s startup club. Through Rice Ventures I met a
Marine veteran working on an app connecting veterans to resources not
readily available to them. After interviewing other veterans to learn
about their experience, I joined his startup, Rutd, as interim CTO and
kickstarted the development of their veteran-facing app and their NGO
management dashboard.

Towards the end of 2020, I started working remotely part-time as a
Venture Fellow at Romulus Capital, a VC firm based in Boston. During
that time I expanded my knowledge of the US startup ecosystem, as well
as what a company's operational and financial lifecycle looks like.

In May 2021 I was promoted at Romulus to a full-time associate. I
leveraged my deal management experience to begin sourcing and running
due diligence for companies in Construction Tech and Real Estate Tech.

In July 2021 I moved to Houston and spent 2 weeks living with my
relatives before starting my studies at Rice.


Dear Admissions Committee,

It is a great pleasure to recommend Iñaki Arango. Over the 6 years that
I knew him as his teacher and as the head of Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) studies at ORT Belgrano High School in
Buenos Aires, I watched him grow from a shy and quiet student into an
outgoing and confident young man. He was not only one of our sharpest
students but also one of our most committed– to his projects, to his
teams, to the school, and to his friends.

Iñaki’s enthusiasm for technology and innovation was palpable from the
moment I met him when he first visited the school with his father and I
showed him some of the projects our students were working on. Then, on
his very first day of school, he took himself up to the ICT floor to see
what we were doing. He showed such genuine interest in our projects that
even though he was a first-year student, we invited him to join our LEGO
Robotics Competition team. He demonstrated a mature ability to both
adapt to his team and to collaborate with students much older than he.
The following year, we invited him to our year-long mini-submarines
workshop, and thanks to his patient persistence, the team he led was the
only one that managed to complete its submarine by the end of the
workshop.

We were very proud to have Iñaki represent our school in various
national and international Olympiads, as he earned a bronze medal at the
national level in the Biology Olympiad, a gold medal at the national
level in the Science Olympiad, a bronze medal at the international level
in the Science Olympiad, as well as a silver medal at the national level
in the IT Olympiad. In spite of the time he dedicated to preparing for
and participating in the competitions, he always maintained his
excellent academic performance: he consistently was one of the top 5 in
his class and, in fact, held the highest GPA his last two years.

For his academic performance, he was also chosen for the first group of
students that worked on a project sponsored by Satellogic, an
Argentine/US satellite company, for which they developed an application
to integrate infrared and visible light images. Iñaki worked well with 3
other teammates in the development of the software. He also took charge
of interfacing with Satellogic and defining project requirements and
timelines. Thanks to his leadership and the group’s collaboration, his
team was rewarded with a trip to Satellogic’s factory in Uruguay to
discuss the software with its engineers.

Beyond his academic achievements, Iñaki also became an integral member
of our school community. In addition to volunteering during lunch to
help students who had fallen behind, he organized and led Science and IT
Olympiad study groups where he coached younger students who found his
explanations easier to understand than those of some teachers and his
approach very fun. Because he both cared about the curriculum and was
also willing to question established norms, Iñaki was proactive about
suggesting changes so that our college-level material would be more
understandable for high school students. Trusting his judgment, we also
decided to introduce parts of a new course he designed, Architectures of
Web Applications, into another course: Emerging Technologies. Finally,
in his last year he applied for and was selected to be a project manager
for student-initiated projects, and the teams that requested Iñaki as
their project manager worked on projects ranging from a blockchain
business solution to a navigation app to assist people with
disabilities. His capacity to network and to clearly and convincingly
convey ideas proved very useful in acquiring clients and forging
connections that boosted the popularity and reach of the projects he
managed.

Iñaki developed as a student, as an innovator, and as a leader during
his six years at ORT. He won the respect and trust of his peers and the
faculty, not only for his vast skill and knowledge but also because he
was such a pleasure to interact with. I believe any college will be
fortunate to have Iñaki as a member of the student body, and I offer my
wholehearted endorsement of his application.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you require further
information about Iñaki.

Best regards,

Darío Mischener

Head of the ICT Track

ORT Belgrano High School

Transcript Starts Below

The full recommendation letter is attached together with the transcript.
The following is a summary: We were very proud to have Iñaki represent
our school in various national and international Olympiads, and in spite
of the time he dedicated to preparing for and participating in the
competitions, he always maintained his excellent academic performance:
he consistently was one of the top 5 in his class and, in fact, held the
highest GPA his last two years.

For his academic performance, he was also chosen for the first group of
students that worked on a project sponsored by Satellogic, an
Argentine/US satellite company, for which they developed an application
to integrate infrared and visible light images. Iñaki worked well with 3
other teammates in the development of the software. He also took charge
of interfacing with Satellogic and defining project requirements and
timelines. Thanks to his leadership and the group’s collaboration, his
team was rewarded with a trip to Satellogic’s factory in Uruguay to
discuss the software with its engineers.

Beyond his academic achievements, Iñaki also became an integral member
of our school community. In addition to volunteering during lunch to
help students who had fallen behind, he organized and led Science and IT
Olympiad study groups where he coached younger students who found his
explanations easier to understand than those of some teachers and his
approach very fun. Because he both cared about the curriculum and was
also willing to question established norms, Iñaki was proactive about
suggesting changes so that our college-level material would be more
understandable for high school students. Trusting his judgment, we also
decided to introduce parts of a new course he designed, Architectures of
Web Applications, into another course: Emerging Technologies. Finally,
in his last year he applied for and was selected to be a project manager
for student-initiated projects, and the teams that requested Iñaki as
their project manager worked on projects ranging from a blockchain
business solution to a navigation app to assist people with
disabilities. His capacity to network and to clearly and convincingly
convey ideas proved very useful in acquiring clients and forging
connections that boosted the popularity and reach of the projects he
managed.


School: Stanford

Prompt: What piece of advice would you share with your younger self?
Describe what experience or realization led you to this understanding.

Word limit: 50 to 150 words

Ideas

-   Focus on people

-   You can never overestimate how much you will learn from others,
    especially people you’ve just met.

-   Other people are spending the same amount of time as you but doing
    other things.

-   You can gain all the knowledge they have accumulated in such a shot
    span of time by talking to others.

-   A good way to meet people is by solving problems. Everyone has
    problems. Everyone’s lives could be improved, some more/easier than
    others.

-   This way you not only improve the world but you learn :/

-   Focus on the vulnerable, focus on the overlooked problems that we
    face as a society. We don’t need another entrepreneur that jump onto
    the hype of whatever the new cool topic is. We need people that
    address the challenging problem that stop our society from
    progressing and becoming better for all / more equitable? Bla bla
    bla

-   

-   Knowledge of new technologies should be applied in a focused manner
    in places that depend on it.

New Ideas

-   The people that I’ve met have shown me that I should think
    unconventionally in terms of my career. I wanted to be an
    entrepreneur or a programmer, but at the time I didn’t know that you
    can do many many more things in your lifetime. The most interesting
    people I’ve met did not adhere to any career in particular and did
    not follow a traditional path.

-   I learned about the importance of people. Not that I didn’t think
    people were important before, but I didn’t realyze at the time how
    much impact any single individual can have on your life.

-   People have their own interests, activities and friends. They spend
    their lifetime devoting themselves to these. Meeting someone allows
    you to absorb so much of the information they’ve acquired throughout
    their lives in such a short span of time.

-   This is especially true when the people you meet have diverse
    backgrounds, because it is more likely that their knowledge and
    interests intersect less, meaning that your mind is going to be
    opened even more.

Version 1

“Appreciate the importance of people. The sooner you do so, the sooner
you’ll start growing at speed orders of magnitude larger.”

It is not that 2 or 3 years ago I didn’t think people were important,
but I didn’t realize how much impact any single individual can have on
my life.

People devote their lives to their interests, activities, and friends.
When I meet someone new, I absorb so much of the information they’ve
acquired throughout their life in such a short span of time. This is
especially true when I meet someone whose background is diverse from
mine, for the simple reason that our knowledge and interests intersect
less, meaning that the rate of learning and understanding of the
different situations around the world rises exponentially.

Deleted

Meeting new people has already had a clear impact on my career
decisions. I used to want to be a programmer, perhaps a business owner,
but the most interesting people I’ve met so far have pushed me to think
beyond that. They did not adhere to any career in particular and did not
follow a traditional path. They have moved between different positions
in management, technology, finance, and government.

Version 2 (CHOSEN)

“Don’t jump onto the hype train every time a new technology comes
around.”

Two years ago, I was really passionate about problem-solving and
technology, but I still assumed that I had to apply the latest
technology to solve every issue.

Working at a VC firm showed me, however, that the best solutions don’t
require the greatest and latest technology. Take construction tech
startups: doubling productivity is not at all rare, and the “miraculous”
software at work is chat apps using decades-old technology adapted
correctly to the requirements of a construction site.

“Most often the best solutions consist of using the simplest, and likely
older, technology in the appropriate way for a specific industry and for
a specific purpose. So talk to people with extensive industry experience
and a clear understanding of the problems the industry has, as well as
all the stakeholders involved.”


School: Stanford

Prompt: Stanford’s community is an essential part of the undergraduate
experience. We come from all walks of life, share our own traditions,
take care of one another, and think of ourselves as a family. How do you
define family and what contributions have you made to yours?

Word limit: 100 to 250 words

Version 1

In my family, I include my parents and relatives, but also my friends
and my classmates. I consider the people at Rice part of my family.

After reading Bill Gates’ How to Avoid Climate Disaster, I realized how
far behind we are in reaching emission and waste reduction targets,
which could result in the collapse of society as we know it. Something
started growing in me: a sense of urgency, a wish to become involved in
helping build a greener future. I also wanted to involve more people at
Rice. My friend and I decided to start a hedge fund focused on energy
transition companies. We thought students would be attracted to the
opportunity to research and manage investments in public stocks, and
throughout the process, they would learn about different subindustries
within energy transition and possible career paths.

Furthermore, we decided that half of the annual profits would be
reinvested into the fund and half would go towards scholarships for
students who want to pursue unpaid internships in the energy transition
sector.

Our initial idea panned out. We raised $150k from City bankers during
the fall semester, and 18 students from all years and majors joined as
analysts for the fund. Some of the upper-class students will be joining
energy transition investment bank groups, renewables companies, and
GreenTech firms this summer.

Version 2 (Reindi/José) CHOSEN

In my family I include my parents, relatives, and friends. But after
working closely with José to develop Reindi, a platform that facilitates
access to services for families with children with disabilities, and
knowing his life story, I feel he is family now, too.

José has two children with Down syndrome. When I met him three years
ago, he was exhausted from wrestling with Argentina’s health system to
get the care his children need. He knew he wasn’t the only parent in
this situation with a child with a disability, and he was looking for
help to solve this problem.

When I heard his story, I was deeply saddened. I was determined to find
a way to ensure that all these families received the treatment they
needed and simplify reimbursement, regardless of their geographic
location or their socioeconomic situation.

In the two years working with José, we sat face to face with the CEOs of
Argentina’s 3 biggest insurance companies. We interviewed parents like
José from all around the country. We went from brainstorming to a
functional, concrete app, currently used by José, and soon to be tested
by ten families, five doctors, and a small insurance firm.

For me, nothing is as fulfilling as building something from scratch and
seeing its positive impact on others. But connecting with the designer
who was living through the situation himself and addressing his most
pressing troubles touched me deeply. The satisfaction this brings me is
what I want to feel every day for the rest of my life.


School: Stanford

Prompt: The Stanford community is deeply curious and driven to learn in
and out of the classroom. Reflect on an idea or experience that makes
you genuinely excited about learning.

Word limit: 100 to 250 words

Version 1

“Are you sure you want those components?” asked a man at the electronics
store. I was a fairly confident 11-year-old, and I explained that I had
watched a video and wanted to try making Tesla Coils. When he told me
about Arduino, I ran home excited and immediately started learning about
microcontrollers and “teaching” a device through coding. It felt like
discovering magic.

I moved from single-file projects in Arduino to more complex project
structures making Windows programs. My mind was suddenly blown away by
how big and feature-rich software could become.

From there I experienced the thrill of discovering image processing,
which opened a new pathway for computers to share analyses and
conclusions in a way humans could easily interpret.

In my last year of high school, I furthered my interests by developing
more complex architectures, like internet-connected apps. It was the
first time I thought of software as a tool for collaboration since
people could share their work and information through these platforms.

After finishing school, the candy jar of blockchain and more esoteric
software, like Chrome extensions and command-line interfaces, treated me
with new ways in which software could solve problems, beyond the
traditional website or app.

It was this journey, every single one of these experiences, that led me
to realize that learning computer science is my passion. I love how each
discovery exposes me to new fields and connects me with people from
diverse backgrounds.


School: Stanford

Prompt: Name one thing that you are looking forward to experiencing at
Stanford.

Word limit: 50 words

Version 1

I want to join a community where everyone is thinking about how to solve
problems and how to turn solutions into companies. I want buddies with
diverse interests and backgrounds who also want to work late into the
night, now as students and later as leaders in our respective fields.


School: Stanford

Prompt: Virtually all of Stanford’s undergraduates live on campus. Write
a note to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that
will help your roommate – and us – get to know you better.

Word limit: 100 to 250 words

Version 1


School: Stanford

Prompt: Reflect on your experiences and personal development since your
last application.

Word limit: 50 to 250 words

Ideas

-   I have a bigger perspective.

-   I was really passionate about the problems, about technology, but I
    didn’t really understand the ways in which one could make sure
    solutions have long term impact.

-   One of the ways I learned a lot about that was startups: how to tell
    good ideas from bad ones, how to position them so that they are more
    likely to succeed, and what types of people they need on their teams
    to grow quickly and sustainably.

-   Something that I took a while to realize is that problems are more
    important than technologies. I used to focus too much on how
    software was implemented, on what technologies to use, and that
    guided my thinking of how to solve a problem.

-   It should always be the other way around. The focus is on the
    problem, and the simpler and more straight forward the solution is,
    the better.

-   If something can be solved without computers, or with old
    technology, then that is better than trying to cram innovation into
    something that doesn’t really need it.

-   I’ve developed a greater appreciation for my country. I used to not
    really identify with it. Living in the US has made me recognize the
    good things Argentina has, and everything it has given and
    inculcated in me.

Version 1

Two years ago, when I first applied, I was really passionate about
problem-solving and technology, but I didn’t really understand the ways
in which one could have real long-term impact. I was still thinking in
terms of “projects” or of applying the latest technology to solve an
issue.

Working at a VC firm showed me, however, that the best solutions don’t
require the greatest and latest technology. It is, indeed, sometimes
leveraged, but most often the best solutions consist of using the
simplest, and likely older, technology in the appropriate way for a
specific industry and for a specific purpose.

This realization struck me while looking at the impact that construction
tech startups have recently had on the industry. Doubling productivity
was not at all rare, and the “miraculous” software at work were chat
apps using decades-old technology adapted correctly to the requirements
of a construction site.

Working on a healthcare and a veteran startup reinforced this idea.
These startups were greatly impacting people’s lives, but the technology
that supported them was not new.

Many entrepreneurs fall into the trap of joining the hype surrounding a
new technology and immediately go look for funding to apply that
technology to a new industry. These two years have shown me that the
best companies are formed by people with extensive industry experience
and a clear understanding of the problems the industry has, as well as
all the stakeholders involved.

Deleted

After coming to the US, I also came to realize all the great things
Argentina has that I had taken for granted. I used to not really
identify with Argentina, especially its culture. Living in the US has
made me recognize all the unique and great things Argentina has, and how
the environment I grew up in defined my work ethic and my goals.

NEW VERSION: Previously Advice to Yourself + Appreciate Argentina

I have come to appreciate the importance of people. It is not that 2 or
3 years ago I didn’t think people were important, but I didn’t realize
how much impact any single individual can have on my life.

People devote their lives to their interests, activities, and friends.
When I meet someone new, I have the possibility to absorb so much of the
information they’ve acquired throughout their life in such a short span
of time. This is especially true when I meet someone whose background is
diverse from mine, for the simple reason that our knowledge and
interests intersect less, meaning that the rate of learning and
understanding of the different situations around the world rises
exponentially.

Meeting new people has already had a clear impact on my career
decisions. I used to want to be a programmer, perhaps a business owner,
but the most interesting people I’ve met so far have pushed me to think
beyond that. They did not adhere to any career in particular and did not
follow a traditional path but rather have moved between different
positions in management, technology, finance, and government.

Since coming to the US, I have also come to realize all the positive
aspects about Argentina that I had taken for granted. I did not really
identify with Argentina, especially its culture. Living in the US has
made me recognize all Argentina’s unique qualities, and how the
environment I grew up in has defined my work ethic and goals.


School: Stanford

Prompt: Please provide a statement that addresses your reasons for
transferring and the objectives you hope to achieve.

Word limit: 250 to 650 words

Ideas

-   Include research or labs in

    -   http://svl.stanford.edu/

    -   https://cs.stanford.edu/~ermon/website/

    -   https://neuroailab.stanford.edu/

    -   https://ckllab.stanford.edu/c-karen-liu

-   Investment fund (private/public)

    -   Energy Innovation

        -   https://sentest.stanford.edu/member/cross-disciplinary-healthcare-innovation-partnership-stanford

        -   https://tomkat.stanford.edu/

        -   https://tomkat.stanford.edu/innovation-transfer-grants

        -   https://woods.stanford.edu/

    -   Stanford Climate Ventures

        -   https://energy.stanford.edu/stanford-climate-ventures

    -   ENERGY 203A: "Big Ideas and Open Opportunities in Climate-Tech
        Entrepreneurship"

    -   Research/Initiative:
        ​​https://energy.stanford.edu/bitsandwatts/about

-   VC clubs

    -   https://contrary.com/stanford

    -   Pick from this^ list (there are so many clubs)

        -   Incubators and Accelerators

            -   https://startx.com/

        -   Student Groups

            -   https://cs4good.com/

            -   https://www.stanfordenergyclub.com/

            -   https://www.sensaimpact.com/

        -   Additional University Resources

            -   VERY IMPORTANT: https://aims.stanford.edu/

            -   Pear Garage: https://www.pear.vc/garage

            -   Lightspeed Venture Summer Fellowship (Recyco):
                ​​https://lsvp.com/?programs=summer-fellowship/

-   Classes

    -   Entrepreneurship courses

        -   https://ecorner.stanford.edu/events

        -   https://stvp.stanford.edu/blog/stanfords-lean-launchpad

        -   http://web.stanford.edu/class/engr248/

        -   https://e145.stanford.edu/

        -   https://www.launchpad.stanford.edu/#what-is-launchpad

        -   https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?view=catalog&filter-coursestatus-Active=on&page=0&catalog=&academicYear=&q=cs183E&collapse=

    -   Pure technical courses

        -   https://majors.stanford.edu/symbolic-systems/symsys

        -   https://majors.stanford.edu/computer-science/cs

        -   https://majors.stanford.edu/management-science-and-engineering/mse

        -   https://majors.stanford.edu/science-technology-and-society/sts

    -   Help understand Argentina

        -   https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?view=catalog&filter-coursestatus-Active=on&q=INTNLREL%20147:%20Political%20Economy%20of%20the%20Southern%20Cone%20Countries%20of%20South%20America&academicYear=20212022

-   Meet more people interested in going back to Latin America to help
    fix the situation

    -   Stanford Club of Argentina

        -   https://cardinalalumni.stanford.edu/get/page/groups/overview/?group_id=0038990958

        -   https://sela.stanford.edu/

        -   https://usmexfocus.org/wp-content/

        -   https://hermanos.weebly.com/our-events.html

        -   http://sole.stanford.edu/#/

        -   https://gammas.org/chapter/stanford-university/

-   Sigma Epsilon Fraternity -> Balanced Men Program

Version 1


School: Stanford

Prompt: What is the most significant challenge that society faces today?

Word limit: 50 words

Version 1

Technology is constantly advancing, but the improvements in quality of
life coming from new inventions and discoveries are not equally enjoyed
by everyone. I believe distributing our resources and technology in a
more equitable way is society’s biggest challenge.

Version 2

Our requirement for energy is outpacing our capacity to generate it,
especially if we aim to use only renewable sources (a requirement to
achieve net-zero). Our biggest challenge is distributing resources and
technology in an equitable way such that every country can reach those
goals before it’s too late.

Version 3 (CHOSEN)

Almost 100% renewable energy use is required to achieve net-zero, yet
many countries lack the resources required to access this kind of
energy. Our biggest challenge is designing policy and incentives, as
well as distributing resources and technology in an equitable way such
that every country can reach those goals.


School: Stanford

Prompt: Tell us about something that is meaningful to you and why.

Word limit: 100 to 250 words

Alternative

The challenges I have faced are meaningful to me because they have made
me who I am.

In third grade, I underwent MRIs, IQ, and puzzle tests, among other
evaluations because I cried every day. Over the next five years, I went
to a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and an educational psychologist every
week until my condition was resolved. Thus, early on I grew a strong
sense that problems are a part of life, they are not the final statement
about me or my future, and it is entirely possible to carry on and
succeed.

Thanks to this mindset, at age 13 I could accept the limitations of
wearing a plastic vest imposed by my scoliosis that ruled out running,
playing sports, and riding a bike. I was determined to get my back pain
under control, so after researching options, I started going to the gym
five days a week.

Unfortunately, my spine eventually started pressing into my lungs. I had
to undergo spinal fusion surgery, which meant I wouldn’t be able to
exercise for a year and would lose flexibility for life. During the
first month, I recovered from not moving at all to slowly getting up and
walking. Determined to resume normal life, I adopted an intensive
swimming routine, and after 10 months I could carry out all daily
activities.

I approach life as if the cards I have been dealt are the cards I wanted
all along. And I’ve become good at playing with the hand I have.

Discard Pile

I have developed a mentality of taking in any obstacle, dealing with it,
and then getting on with life.

Version 1

José has two children with Down syndrome. When I met him three years
ago, he was exhausted from wrestling with Argentina’s health system to
get the care his children need. He knew he wasn’t the only parent in
this situation with a child with a disability, and he was looking for
help to solve this problem.

When I heard his story, I was deeply saddened. I was determined to find
a way to ensure that all these families received the treatment they
needed and simplify reimbursement, regardless of their geographic
location or their socioeconomic situation.

In the two years working with José to develop Reindi, the platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities, we sat face to face with the CEOs of Argentina’s 3 biggest
insurance companies. We interviewed parents like José from all around
the country. We went from brainstorming to a functional, concrete app,
currently being used by José and his two children, and soon to be tested
by ten families, five doctors, and a small insurance firm.

For me, nothing is as fulfilling as building something from scratch and
watching how it impacts others. Entrepreneurship is so important to me
because I want to connect with people on a deeper level and address
their most pressing troubles. The satisfaction this brings me is what I
want to feel every day for the rest of my life.

Version 2 (CHOSEN) Copy MIT Essay


School: Stanford

Prompt: What historical moment or event do you wish you could have
witnessed?

Word limit: 50 words

Version 1

In a struggling economy, Maradona and soccer always brought hope in
Argentina. After Maradona died, the country erupted in tears. I would
have wanted to witness Maradona’s “goal of the century” against England
in 1986, when he momentarily restored Argentina’s dignity in the context
of the Falkland Islands conflict.


School: Stanford

Prompt: What is the best compliment you have received? Who gave you this
compliment?

Word limit: 50 words

Version 1

For my birthday my best friend in Argentina sent me a letter in which
she listed every significant event we had experienced together. Reading
her words saying she could not picture life without our friendship moved
me to tears. That remains the only time I have cried in the US.


School: Yale University

Prompt: Reflect on a community to which you feel connected. Why is it
meaningful to you? You may define community however you like.

Word limit: 250 words

Outline

-   Topics:

    -   Argentina

    -   Giving back to Argentina

-   Outline:

    -   Intro:

        -   What Argentinians are stereotyped as

        -   Reality check at then end

    -   Argentina bad: (MAYBE INCLUDE EXCHANGE RATE HERE)

        -   D

    -   Argentina good 1:

        -   D

    -   Argentina good 2: Multiculturalism

        -   D

    -   Learnings and conclusion:

        -   

Last Year’s (for Duke)

A key factor I believe will add value to Duke’s diverse student body is
my Argentinian background. Besides the typical cultural elements, I have
some traits inherent from growing up in my country.

Since I was thirteen, I have known the conversion rate between pesos and
dollars. Our economy is very dependent on external factors, and cannot
sustain by itself at all. The first thing this has taught me is to be
grateful for the situation I find myself in, I am able to eat every day,
have a roof to sleep under, and even have the chance to apply to
college. The second thing it has taught me is that I should strive for
cheaper, simpler and more practical solutions to the problems I want to
solve. Everyone should be able to benefit from them.

I consider creativeness and persistence to be two other characteristics
I attribute to having grown here. Argentinian institutions are famously
bureaucratic and traditional. Having experience with trying to implement
innovative solutions has taught me that sometimes one must flip the
situation over its head and think of completely different ways to solve
or get a round a problem.

Overall, I believe my experience growing up in Argentina provides me
with a unique perspective that can provide new viewpoints and solutions
for the complex discussions being held at Duke.

Generic Version

There seems to be a general consensus that being Argentinian means that
you are a cheerful, soccer-loving and alfajor-eating individual.
Although that is often the case, there is much more to being
Argentinian.

I share one of the most common Latino traits: I can be way too loud. But
being Latino does not always entail hugging everyone and greeting them
with kisses. Since I was thirteen I have known the conversion rate
between pesos and dollars. In Argentina your savings could suddenly be
wiped out by our continually inflating currency. A struggling economy
means that there are less opportunities. Even if you work hard, you may
not be able to succeed due to corruption or a mismanagement of
resources.

Nonetheless, Argentinians have a multitude of good characteristics:
accessible public transportation, free higher education and free
healthcare. We are very welcoming and love to share our traditions, like
mate or Sunday asados. We place friends and family as the most important
thing in our lives. There is a uniqueness about Argentina that makes it
so that even in a crumbling economy, Argentians still manage to retain a
strong national pride.

Argentina is also a very multicultural country. It is very common to
hear that someone’s grandparent immigrated a long time ago looking for a
brighter future. I was born to a Spanish-Italian family, went to a
Catholic primary school and then moved to Chinatown to go to a Jewish
highschool. It has made me appreciate the value of diversity. It has put
into perspective how much we learn by pure osmosis when we are immersed
in a community of people with a wide range of backgrounds and
experiences.

Argentina has showed me how think outside the box, striving for cheaper,
simpler and more practical solutions to the problems of society, so that
everyone can benefit from them. Because of all this, nothing will ever
make me feel less proud of being Argentinian. I believe my experience
growing up in Argentina provides me with a unique perspective that can
provide new viewpoints and solutions for the complex discussions being
held at Yale.

Story Version

“I can’t afford rent, I don’t know where to stay”, my friend Frida said
over the phone. She had just finished high school and had no way of
sustaining herself. Her parents owned no assets and had just lost their
jobs.

Frida’s situation is shared by a surprisingly high number of people in
Argentina, a country where your savings could be suddenly wiped out by
our ever-increasing inflation. A struggling economy means that there are
fewer opportunities, that even if you work hard, you may not be able to
succeed due to corruption or mismanagement of resources.

Nonetheless, Frida never gave up–a defining characteristic of those in
my community. We are very welcoming and love to share our traditions,
like mate or Sunday asados. We place friends and family as the most
important thing in our lives. There is a uniqueness about Argentina that
makes it so that even in a crumbling economy, Argentians still manage to
retain a strong national pride. She remained persistent to pursue a
better tomorrow as she now enjoys a decent living Buenos Aires working
as a software developer.

As it showed Frida, Argentina has showed me how think outside the box,
striving for cheaper, simpler and more practical solutions to the
problems of society, so that everyone can benefit from them. Because of
all this, nothing will ever make me feel less proud of being
Argentinian. I believe my experience growing up in Argentina provides me
with a unique perspective that can provide new viewpoints and solutions
for the complex discussions being held at Yale.


School: Yale university

Prompt: Tell us in 500 to 750 words why you wish to transfer from your
current or most recent institution. Why are you interested in Yale, and
how do you think that being here would be a great next step in your
education?

Word limit: 500 to 750 words

Outline

-   Topics

    -   Venture Capital

    -   Startup Atmosphere

-   Outline

    -   What do I want to focus on next? (350 word)

        -   In the future I want to go back to Argentina and give back
            to the country that I feel gave so much to me. To do that I
            need to be able to:

            -   Meet more people from Latin America or other
                underdeveloped I can connect with to increase my
                understanding of the issues that these countries have in
                common

            -   Develop myself technically and professionally in my
                areas of interest:

                -   Machine learning and environment

                -   Startups and machine learning

    -   How do I think that being at Yale would be a great next step in
        my education? (300)

        -   Include research or labs in

            -   Neuro machine learning -> relate it to book by aiden

            -   Environment

        -   Investment fund (private/public)

        -   VC clubs

            -   Yale startup ecosystem -> paper from 2012 by Yale
                researchers on “The Who, Why and How of Spinoffs” -> Can
                help progress my understanding of startups

                -   https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2089495

            -   Globalist in 2012 already talked about startup chile,
                now the best startup accelerator in the whole of Latin
                America.

            -   I am really interested in early-stage companies. Both in
                investing and in participating/creating them. I was
                surprised throughout my gap, during which I worked full
                time at a Boston-based VC fund, by the number of people
                from Yale. Some of them where is still in school and
                some of them had left already, but through them I got to
                people other students, and I was really impressed by how
                fulfilling those interactions where.

                -   I can mention Anoushka, with whom I may be working
                    soon, or Bobby, from Tribe, with whom I connected
                    about LatAm startups .

            -   I really resonate to the Yale Entrepreneurial society
                mission sof building “Diverse, scrappy & unbounded.”
                founders, characteristics with which I identify strongly
                coming from Argentina. Having access to 1000s of alumni
                in the VC/startup space is also super attractive and I
                think can really accelerate my dev elopement as an
                entrepreneur and investor. https://www.yesatyale.org/

            -   Tsai CITY Summer Fellowship and $3k Climate Change
                Innovation Grant

                -   https://contrarycap.com/yale

        -   Meet more people interested in going back to Latin America
            to help fix the situation

            -   Include club that could increase my exposure in this
                sense

                -   La Casa Cultural - Latinx house @ Yale that is an
                    umbrella for clubs/other activities

                -   Entrepreneurial societies

                -   Latin american entrepreneurial societies

                -   Latino societies

                -   Activist organizations?

            -   Liason for the Greenberg World Fellows Program

                -   https://worldfellows.yale.edu/the-program/common-questions/

                -   Research previous LatAm Fellows

        -   

    -   Why I Rice doesn’t quite fit with what I want to do (100 words)

        -   Culturally it is not quite for me -> I am not the FAANG type

            -   Rice is very technically focused. I feel like there is
                no startup/business atmosphere, and my belief is that
                the right balance of both is the best fit for my
                interests.

            -   There is no big latin american community

        -   Financial Aid -> Things are dicey in Argentina -> That is
            why I want to go back

Version 1

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume that I must love soccer,
asados, and alfajores and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I
actually do– but being Argentinian means much more to me.

Since I was thirteen I have known the conversion rate between pesos and
dollars because in Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to
chronic inflation. Growing up in a struggling economy means I have seen
what limited resources and opportunities look like. I have seen how
corruption’s effects are amplified when there is less to go around. Amid
such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at least
get derailed, even if you work hard.

This very situation, however, also makes us experts at thinking outside
the box and finding cheaper, simpler, and more practical solutions so
that everyone can benefit from them. There is a sense of solidarity
because everyone knows they could fall on hard times. And, quite
honestly, the going can get really, really tough, but we don’t give up.

Though views regarding how to improve the country may differ, there is
much to be done, and I know I am not the only one who feels a calling to
improve the quality of life of Argentinians and Latin Americans. Two
years ago my three best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
learn all we can, connect with people from around the world, develop
ourselves professionally, and then go back to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

Personally, I have two goals. First, I need to gain a working
understanding of how Argentina and other developing countries fit into
the global economy. Second, I need to develop myself technically and
professionally to be able to make my contribution as an entrepreneur.

dd

During my gap year I worked at a VC firm in Boston, where I had the
chance to work with Yale undergraduate Anoushka Ramkumar on sustainable
housing startups and discuss Latin American Web3 startups with Yale
alumnus Bobby Kwon, among other Yale students and alumni. When I saw
their level and insight, I realized Yale would be the best place for me
to reach my goals.

Upon investigating the opportunities at Yale, in addition to the high
level coursework I know I will receive through the Computer Science
major, I found a research project at the intelligent computing lab in
which I very much want to participate so I can work on machine learning
(ML) technology by following an algorithm-hardware co-design approach.
Something critical since the ever-increasing size and complexity of ML
algorithms will require more than just a general increase in computing
power to continue evolving, necessitating custom processors designed
specifically to accelerate those processes.

Thanks to Yale’s strong liberal arts program, I’ll be able to take, for
example, ____, so I can supplement my technological training with a
foundation in international political economy. However, I also plan to
take advantage of programs like the Alternative Spring Break La Casa
Cultural organized in 2018 and 2019 to help hurricane relief in Puerto
Rico so I can get firsthand experience in stimulating economic
development in Latin American countries even before I finish school. I
intend to be active in the Club of Argentine Students, and I look
forward to interacting with my new peers from other developing countries
at Yale and establishing connections with them for future
collaborations. I also hope to serve as an undergraduate liaison for the
Greenberg World Fellows program, which included Argentines I admire,
Martín Lousteau and Facundo Garretón–to expand my understanding of
circumstances around the globe.

I want to become involved in an ecosystem that provides so much support
to future investors and entrepreneurs, and to the companies that are
incubated at the university, like Snackpass (YCombinator, A16Z) and
Prepared (Thiel Fellowship), and I look forward to continuing to develop
my startup, Recyco, while at Yale. I also hope to participate in the
Tsai CITY Summer fellowship as well as apply for the Climate Change
Innovation Grant.

In a piece on Startup Chile in 2012 (before it was widely known), The
Globalist wrote that it was an up-and-coming version of Silicon Valley
within South America. I want to be in a place that recognizes the value
of Latin American entrepreneurs and what they can do for the region and
the world. I greatly identify with the Yale Entrepreneurial society’s
mission of building “Diverse, scrappy & unbounded” founders. Having
access to thousands of alumni in the VC/startup space is also extremely
attractive and will really accelerate my development as an entrepreneur
and investor.

While I have made the most of my time at Rice, I have come to realize
that its culture is not the best fit for me. Though the technical focus
is strong, the business and entrepreneurship scene is lacking. I believe
I would thrive in an atmosphere where there is a good balance between
the two: people applying CS and other disciplines to solve new problems
in the industry. Furthermore, Rice’s international community
(specifically South American) is not as large as Yale’s. Rice’s cost has
become prohibitively expensive for my family, which is affected by
Argentina's inflation and economic instability. I am therefore looking
for a school that can offer more financial aid to lighten the financial
stress.

I can’t wait to learn from my new friends’ experiences at Yale and share
mine while we work on solving interesting and complex problems.

Version 2 (after Asa’s recommendations)

Outline

-   Pact with my friends to grab attention

-   Thesis statement -> Wanting to go back to Argentina to give back

-   Growing up in Argentina put me at the mercy of complicated global
    economic forces

-   I rose to the occasion, pushing myself to understand these forces
    and help guide my country to greater development, stability and
    prosperity

-   the source of this motivation – economic instability – is also what
    is prompting me to transfer schools

-   if anything, this makes me especially qualified (if people like me
    can’t learn from more developed countries and apply that knowledge
    at home, then how is the system ever supposed to work?)

-   Then, to illustrate your competence and the truth of my motivation,
    clearly lay out what work I’ve done so far and what I’ve learned
    from it.

-   That’s a natural transition to Yale – you can say one of the things
    I have learned is how Yale is good in XYZ ways and Rice is lacking
    in UVW ways (though I’d be careful not to disparage Rice too much,
    it’s unnecessary for your narrative and makes me seem negative).

-   Much stronger final statement about Yale than I have now.

Essay

Two years ago my three best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
learn all we can, connect with people from around the world, develop
ourselves professionally, and then go back to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

Since I was thirteen I have known the conversion rate between pesos and
dollars because in Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to
chronic inflation. Growing up in a struggling economy, I understand what
limited resources and opportunities look like. I have seen how
corruption’s effects are amplified when there is less to go around. Amid
such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at least
get derailed, even if you work hard. This very situation, however, also
makes us experts at thinking outside the box and finding cheaper,
simpler, and more practical solutions so that everyone can benefit from
them.

Personally, I have two goals. First, I need to develop myself
technically and professionally to be able to make a contribution as an
entrepreneur, whether by attracting foreign investment, creating jobs,
or exporting intellectual property. Second, I need to gain a working
understanding of how Argentina and other developing countries fit into
the global economy.

My first step to fulfill the pact was to pursue technical training at
Rice University. However, I have come to realize that its culture is not
the best fit for me. Though the technical focus is strong, the business
and entrepreneurship scene is lacking. To reach my goals, I need an
atmosphere with a good balance between people applying CS and other
disciplines to solve new problems in the industry/students who are
passionate about technological innovation AND who are anxious to
materialize/launch their innovations through startups/entrepreneurial
endeavors. In addition, Rice’s international - specifically South
American - community is not as large as Yale’s, and so I do not have the
chance to connect with classmates who know firsthand what life is like
in Latin America and who share my commitment to the region. Furthermore,
Rice’s cost has become prohibitively expensive for my family, which is
affected by Argentina's inflation and economic instability. I am
therefore looking for a school that can offer more financial aid to/I
know that Yale offers more financial aid to international students,
which would lighten the financial stress.

What’s more, during my gap year, I accepted an opportunity to work
remotely for a VC firm in Boston, where I had the chance to collaborate
with various Yale students and alumni, including a Yale undergraduate on
sustainable housing startups and discuss Latin American Web3 startups
with a Yale alumnus. Remembering their level and insight, I realized
Yale would be the best place for me to reach my goals.

To begin chipping away at on the first, during my gap year, I accepted
an opportunity to work remotely for a VC firm in Boston, where I had the
chance to collaborate with various Yale students and alumni, including a
Yale undergraduate on sustainable housing startups and discuss Latin
American Web3 startups with a Yale alumnus. When I saw their level and
insight, I realized Yale would be the best place for me to reach my
goals.

In 2012 The Globalist wrote a piece on Startup Chile (before it was
widely known), stating that it was an up-and-coming version of Silicon
Valley within South America. I want to be in a place that recognizes the
value of Latin American entrepreneurs and what they can do for the
region and the world. I can’t wait to join the Yale Entrepreneurial
society and live out its mission of building “Diverse, scrappy &
unbounded” entrepreneurial endeavors. I want to become involved in an
ecosystem that so believes in its students and provides so much support
to future investors and entrepreneurs, and to the companies incubated at
the university, like Snackpass (YCombinator, A16Z) and Prepared (Thiel
Fellowship). The access to thousands of alumni in the VC/startup space
will accelerate/step up my development as an entrepreneur and investor.
Furthermore, I look forward to continuing to develop my own startup,
Recyco, and to participating in the Tsai CITY Summer fellowship as well
as applying for the Climate Change Innovation Grant.

In terms of my scientific training, in addition to the high-level
coursework I know I will receive through the CS major, I look forward to
engaging in cutting-edge Machine Learning (ML) research, such as that
being carried out in the Intelligent Computing Lab. I am fascinated by
their algorithm-hardware co-design approach. With the ever-increasing
size and complexity of ML algorithms, we will need not only a general
increase in computing power but also custom processors designed
specifically to accelerate those processes, such as the ones being built
at the lab.

Thanks to Yale’s strong liberal arts program, I will also be able to
gain the working understanding I need of how Argentina and other
developing countries fit into the global economy. I’ll be able to take,
for example, ____, so I can supplement my technological training with a
foundation in international political economy. I also plan to take
advantage of programs like the Alternative Spring Break La Casa Cultural
organized in 2018 and 2019 to help hurricane relief in Puerto Rico so I
can get firsthand experience in stimulating economic development in
Latin American countries even before I finish school. I intend to be
active in the Club of Argentine Students, and I look forward to
interacting with my new peers from other developing countries at Yale
and establishing connections with them for future collaborations. I also
hope to serve as an undergraduate liaison for the Greenberg World
Fellows program to expand my understanding of circumstances around the
globe. The program has included Argentines I admire, like Martín
Lousteau, who fought extensively to lower inflation and stabilize the
prices of the basic basket of goods as Minister of Economics and
Senator, and Facundo Garretón, founder and investor in some of the
biggest Latin American startups.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume that I must love soccer,
asados, and alfajores and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I
actually do– but being Argentinian means much more to me. I can’t wait
to learn from my new friends’ experiences at Yale and share mine while
we work on solving interesting and complex problems.

Cool sentences bank

-   I was born to a Spanish-Italian family, went to a Catholic primary
    school, and then moved to Chinatown to go to a Jewish high school.

-   I believe my experience growing up in Argentina provides me with a
    unique perspective that can provide new viewpoints and solutions for
    the complex discussions being held at Yale.

-   Argentina has given me a lot: my friends, my curiosity, my hunger,
    my persistence. Now she needs me.

-   Argentinians also take friendship very seriously, and if I had to
    name what is most important to me, I would have to say my friends.
    // I am gonna be a very loyal friend to my new friends -> rewrite

Versión 3 (Posible versión limpia)

Two years ago my three best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
learn all we can, connect with people from around the world, develop
ourselves professionally, and then go back to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

My first step to fulfill the pact was to pursue technical training at
Rice University. However, I have come to realize that its culture is not
the best fit for me. To reach my goals, I need an atmosphere like
Yale’s, with a good balance between students who are passionate about
technological innovation AND who are anxious to materialize their
innovations through startups. In addition, Yale has a larger
international– and especially Latin American– student community, and so
I would have more chances to connect with classmates who know firsthand
what life is like in Latin America and who share my commitment to the
region. Furthermore, I know that Yale offers more financial aid to
international students, which would alleviate the financial stress my
family is experiencing due to Argentina's inflation and economic
instability.

What’s more, during my gap year, I accepted an opportunity to work
remotely for Romulus Capital, a VC firm in Boston, where I had the
chance to collaborate with various Yale students and alumni, including a
Yale undergraduate on sustainable housing startups, and to discuss Latin
American Web3 startups with a Yale alumnus. Remembering their expertise
and insight, I realized Yale would be the best place for me to reach my
goals.

To begin chipping away at on the first, during my gap year, I accepted
an opportunity to work remotely for at a VC firm in Boston, where I had
the chance to collaborate with various Yale students and alumni,
including a Yale undergraduate Anoushka Ramkumar on sustainable housing
startups and discuss Latin American Web3 startups with a Yale alumnus
Bobby Kwon, among other Yale students and alumni. When I saw their level
and insight, I realized Yale would be the best place for me to reach my
goals.

Then I came across a piece in The Globalist from 2012 on Startup Chile
(before it was widely known), stating that it was an up-and-coming
version of Silicon Valley within South America. I want to be in a place
that 10 years ago was already able to recognize the value of Latin
American accelerators and entrepreneurs and what they can do for the
region and the world. I can’t wait to join the Yale Entrepreneurial
society and live out its mission of building “diverse, scrappy &
unbounded” entrepreneurial endeavors. I want to become involved in an
ecosystem that so believes in its students and provides so much support
to future investors, entrepreneurs, and the companies incubated at the
university, like Snackpass (YCombinator, A16Z) and Prepared (Thiel
Fellowship). The access to thousands of alumni in the VC/startup space
will accelerate my development as an entrepreneur and investor.
Furthermore, I look forward to continuing to develop my own startup,
Recyco, and to participating in the Tsai CITY Summer fellowship as well
as applying for the Climate Change Innovation Grant.

In terms of my scientific training, in addition to the high-level
coursework I know I will receive through the CS major, I look forward to
engaging in cutting-edge Machine Learning (ML) research, such as that
being carried out in the Intelligent Computing Lab. I am fascinated by
their algorithm-hardware co-design approach. With the ever-increasing
size and complexity of ML algorithms, we will need not only a general
increase in computing power but also custom processors designed
specifically to accelerate those processes, such as the ones being built
at the lab.<INSERT PROFESSOR’S/RESEARCH GROUP NAME AT THE LAB>

Thanks to Yale’s strong liberal arts program, I will also be able to
gain the working understanding I need of how Argentina and other
developing countries fit into the global economy. I’ll be able to take,
for example, ____, so I can supplement my technological training with a
foundation in international political economy. I also plan to take
advantage of programs like the Alternative Spring Break La Casa Cultural
organized in 2018 and 2019 to help hurricane relief in Puerto Rico so I
can get firsthand experience in stimulating economic development in
Latin American countries even before I finish school. I intend to be
active in the Club of Argentine Students, and I look forward to
interacting with my new peers from other developing countries at Yale
and establishing connections with them for future collaborations. I also
hope to serve as an undergraduate liaison for the Greenberg World
Fellows program to expand my understanding of circumstances around the
globe. The program has included Argentines I admire, like Martín
Lousteau, who fought extensively to lower inflation and stabilize the
prices of the basic basket of goods when he was Minister of Economics
and Senator, and Facundo Garretón, founder and investor of some of the
biggest Latin American startups.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume that I must love soccer,
asados, and alfajores and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I
actually do. What many probably don’t know is that since I was thirteen
I have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic inflation.
Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at
least get derailed, even if you work hard. This very situation, however,
also makes us appreciate the urgency of addressing problems and experts
at thinking outside the box and finding cheaper, simpler, and more
practical solutions so that everyone can benefit from them. I look
forward to contributing/can’t wait to contribute this perspective as I
advance my knowledge and develop innovative/creative ideas with my new
peers and friends and to learning/learn from their experiences as well.
And I can’t wait to join the life-long Yale community/make life-long
friends….

<SAY SOMETHING ABOUT APPLYING THESE CHARACTERISTICS AT YALE>I can’t wait
to learn from my new friends’ experiences at Yale and share mine while
we work on solving interesting and complex problems.

– but being Argentinian means much more to me

Version 4 (New clean version, reduced word count) [792 words]

Two years ago my three best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
learn all we can, connect with people from around the world, develop
ourselves professionally, and then return to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice University.
However, I have come to realize its culture is not the best fit for me.
To reach my goals, I need an atmosphere like Yale’s, with a balance
between students who are passionate about technological innovation AND
who are anxious to materialize their innovations through startups.

Yale also has a larger international–especially Latin American–student
community (20% vs. 10%), meaning I will have more chances to connect
with classmates who know firsthand what life is like in Latin America
and who share my commitment to the region. Moreover, Yale offers more
financial aid to international students, which would alleviate the
financial stress my family is experiencing due to Argentina's inflation
and economic instability.

While working remotely during my gap year for Romulus Capital, a VC firm
in Boston, I had the chance to collaborate on sustainable housing
startups and to discuss Latin American Web3 startups with various Yale
students and alumni. Remembering their expertise and insight, I realized
Yale would be the best place for me.

The other influential factor was a piece I came across in The Globalist
from 2012 on Startup Chile , stating that it was an up-and-coming
version of Silicon Valley within South America. I want to be in a place
that a decade ago was already able to recognize the value of Latin
American accelerators and entrepreneurs and what they can do for the
region and the world. I can’t wait to join the Yale Entrepreneurial
Society and live out its mission of building “diverse, scrappy &
unbounded” entrepreneurs and VCs.

I want to become involved in an ecosystem that believes in its students
and provides so much support to the companies incubated at the
university, like Snackpass (YCombinator, A16Z) and Prepared (Thiel
Fellowship). The access to thousands of alumni in the VC/startup space
will accelerate my development as an entrepreneur and investor.
Furthermore, I plan to continue developing my own recycling startup,
Recyco, and to participate in the Tsai CITY Summer fellowship as well as
apply for the Climate Change Innovation Grant.

In terms of scientific training, in addition to the high-level
coursework I know I will receive through the CS major, I look forward to
engaging in cutting-edge Machine Learning (ML) research. I am fascinated
by Dr. Priya Panda’s algorithm-hardware co-design approach in the
Intelligent Computing Lab, especially the CMOS-based Deep Neural Network
accelerators. With the ever-increasing size and complexity of ML
algorithms, we will not only need a general increase in computing power,
but also custom processors designed specifically to accelerate those
processes, such as those being built at the lab.

Yale’s strong liberal arts program will allow me to gain the
understanding I need of how Argentina and other developing countries fit
into the global economy. I’ll be able to take courses like Economic
Evolution of the Latin American and Caribbean Countries so I can
supplement my technical training with a foundation in international
political economy.

I hope as well to serve as an undergraduate liaison for the Greenberg
World Fellows Program, which has included Argentines I admire, like
Martín Lousteau, who fought extensively to lower inflation when he was
Minister of Economics and Senator, and Facundo Garretón, founder and
investor of some of the biggest Latin American startups. And, of course,
I intend to be active in the Club of Argentine Students.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume that I must love soccer,
asados and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I
actually do, but what many probably don’t know is that since I was
thirteen I have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars
because in Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic
inflation. Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come
undone or at least get derailed, even if you work hard. This very
situation, however, also makes us appreciate the urgency of addressing
problems and experts at thinking outside the box and finding cheaper,
simpler, and more practical solutions so that everyone can benefit from
them.

At Yale, I look forward to contributing this perspective as I advance my
knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers and to learning
from their experiences, and to making life-long friends.

Discard Pile

and look forward to interacting with my new peers from other developing
countries at Yale and establishing connections with them for future
collaborations

Version 5 (CUT DOWN FROM 4660 to 4500 CHARACTERS)

Two years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: come to the US, learn
as much as we can, connect with people from all over, develop ourselves
professionally, and then return to Argentina to help our country attain
sustainable growth.

My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice University.
However, I have come to realize its culture is not the best fit for me.
To reach my goals, I need an atmosphere like Yale’s, with a balance
between students who are passionate about technological innovation AND
who are anxious to materialize their innovations through startups.

Yale also has a larger Latin American student community, meaning I will
have more chances to connect with classmates who know firsthand what
life is like there and who share my commitment to the region. Moreover,
Yale offers more financial aid to international students, which would
alleviate the financial stress my family is experiencing due to
Argentina's inflation and economic instability.

While working remotely during my gap year for Romulus Capital, a VC firm
in Boston, I had the chance to collaborate on sustainable housing
startups and to discuss Latin American Web3 startups with various Yale
students and alumni. Witnessing their expertise and insight, I realized
Yale would be the best place for me.

The other influential factor was a piece I came across in The Globalist
from 2012 stating that Startup Chile was an up-and-coming version of
Silicon Valley within South America. I want to be in a place that a
decade ago was already able to recognize the value of Latin American
accelerators and entrepreneurs and what they can do for the region and
the world. I can’t wait to join the Yale Entrepreneurial Society and
live out its mission of cultivating “diverse, scrappy & unbounded”
entrepreneurs and VCs.

I want to become involved in an ecosystem that believes in its students
and provides so much support to companies incubated at the university,
like Snackpass (A16Z) and Prepared (Thiel Fellowship). The access to
thousands of alumni in the VC/startup space will accelerate my
development as an entrepreneur and investor. Furthermore, I plan to
continue developing my own recycling startup, Recyco, and to participate
in the Tsai CITY Summer fellowship as well as apply for the Climate
Change Innovation Grant.

In addition to the high-level coursework I know I will receive through
the CS major, I look forward to engaging in cutting-edge Machine
Learning (ML) research. I am fascinated by Dr. Priya Panda’s
algorithm-hardware co-design approach in the Intelligent Computing Lab,
especially the CMOS-based Deep Neural Network accelerators. With the
ever-increasing size and complexity of ML algorithms, we will need
custom processors designed specifically to accelerate ML training and
execution, such as those being built at the lab.

Yale’s strong liberal arts program will allow me to gain the
understanding I need of how Argentina and other developing countries fit
into the global economy. I’ll be able to take courses like Economic
Evolution of the Latin American and Caribbean Countries, so I can
supplement my technical training with a foundation in international
political economy.

I hope as well to serve as an undergraduate liaison for the Greenberg
World Fellows Program, which has included Argentines I admire, like
Martín Lousteau, who fought extensively to lower inflation when he was
Minister of Economics and Senator, and Facundo Garretón, founder and
investor of some of the biggest Latin American startups. And, of course,
I intend to be active in the Club of Argentine Students.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume I must love soccer, asados
and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. I actually
do, but what many probably don’t know is that since I was thirteen I
have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic inflation.
Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone or at
least get derailed, even if you work hard. This very situation, however,
also makes us appreciate the urgency of addressing problems and makes us
experts at thinking outside the box and finding cheaper, simpler, and
more practical solutions so that everyone can benefit from them.

At Yale, I look forward to contributing this perspective as I advance my
knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers. I am eager to
learn from their experiences and make life-long friends.

DISCARD

Witnessing the expertise and insight of the various Yale students and
alumni at Romulus Capital, a VC firm in Boston for which I worked
remotely during my gap year also made me realize Yale would be the best
place for me.


School: Yale University

Prompt: You may have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is
so meaningful you believe your application would be incomplete without a
discussion of it. Please tell us about it.

Word limit: 250 words

Outline

-   Topics:

    -   ArgentinaD

-   

Version 1

“The cruel injustice is that even though the world’s poor are doing
essentially nothing to cause climate change, they’re going to suffer the
most from it.” My heart started palpitating when I read that. It was
part of Bill Gates latest book con climate change.

Version 2 – José

For me, nothing is as fulfilling as building something from scratch, and
seeing how it impacts others. Such was my experience developing the
software for Reindi, a platform that facilitates access to services for
families with special needs children.

“Are you Iñaki??” José asked surprised, expecting to meet a grownup. He
has two children with Down syndrome and was exhausted from all the work
that Argentina’s health system made him do for his children to get them
the care they deserved. He knew about the problem plaguing the
disability community in Argentina, he had a vague idea for a solution,
and he was looking for someone to bring it to life.

In an attempt to find that person, he had reached out to dozens of
anonymous users on an Argentinian blockchain forum. I was the first to
respond and set up a meeting in person, and that is how we met in a
Starbucks one afternoon after school. There he explained with
excruciating detail all the steps he had to take to get reimbursement
from the government for his children’s treatment.

I was outraged. I couldn’t help but do something. I was determined to
find a way to allow every kid in the country to have access to
insurance, no matter their location or their socioeconomic situation.
That was two years ago.

In these two years working with José, we have sat face to face with the
CEOs of the 3 biggest insurance companies to negotiate trials. We have
interviewed parents from all around the country to better understand
their situation. We have gone from vague ideas to a concrete app,
currently being used by José and his two children, and soon to be tested
by ten families, five doctors, and a small insurance firm.

There is nothing as fulfilling as building something from scratch, and
seeing how it impacts others in a way you could have never imagined.
Reindi has taught me the value of technology, not only to solve problems
but to connect with people on a deeper level, to understand what is most
important in their lives.

Version 3 – Recyco

Now people know how and where to recycle.

This story of Recyco, my startup. I was approached by my co-founder
Cristian two years ago with a problem. He worked in the recycling
industry in Buenos Aires and it had come to his attention that the
recycling stands in the city center were expensive, inefficient, and
most importantly, no one knew if they were effective or not. Basic
information like how much they were collecting, if they were in the
optimal spot or when they had to be emptied last were a complete
mystery.

We set out to solve that problem. What we didn’t know at the time is
that this journey would take us through a path of exploration, full of
surprising realizations.

I initially designed an app for stand operators to track all the
containers they collected, but we quickly found out the problem was much
bigger. It turned out that the stands were just a first attempt made by
big consumer product companies like Unilever or Coca-Cola to collect
more plastic packaging and avoid it going to landfills. These companies
want to increase the recycled plastic content in their product but lack
the empty used products required for the recycling process.

After realizing this, we pivoted. We built a software platform that
allowed companies to manage their collection efforts digitally. This was
paired with a consumer-facing application that made recycling easier by
providing instructions, locations of stands, and even a home pick-up
system.

After initial feedback we realized that not only companies but also
consumers could benefit from access to the platform, so we reached out
to local governments. We are currently trying to implement the platform
at a state level so that towns are able to increase their collection
efforts and optimize their truck routes by using our software.

The story has not ended yet however. I was just let know yesterday that
Unilever wants to move forward with the contract negotiations. We have
an intense year ahead of us, ramping up developing efforts, setting up
support infrastructure and getting ready for the big launch, and I am
looking forward to every single second of it.

I also started Recyco, a recycling SaaS startup. Big consumer product
companies, like Coca-Cola and Nestlé, want to increase the recycled
plastic content in their products but lack the empty used packaging
required for the recycling process, and their attempts to collect
plastic packaging rather than let it go to landfills were failing. We
built a software platform that allowed companies to manage their
collection efforts digitally. This was paired with a consumer-facing
application that made recycling easier by providing instructions,
locations of stands, and even a home pick-up system.

Version 4

The cards dealth to me may not have been the

Bumps in the roads can arise, but that doesn’t have to be bad. It is
never a final statement, it is never tragedy.

It does not mean that I have not had to wrap my head around it. It’s
never been “oh i can’t believe it”

My attitude towards life from personal experience…

INCLUDE SURGERY
INCLUDE RECOVERY FROM SURGERY

ES PARA HABLAR DE OTRA COSA PARA QUE NO TODOS LOS ESSAYS SEAN DE LO
MISMO

Cool Sentence Bank

-   There are three startups I want to talk about, but I only have space
    for one.

-   I believe that nascent businesses can have Arrancar la descripción
    del emprendimiento con el impacto social

-   Ahora mi hijo puede acudir a la escuela

-   Ahora mi la gente sabe donde llevar su reciclaje

-   There is nothing as fulfilling as building something from scratch,
    and seeing how it impacts others in a way you could have never
    imagined.

Final Version – José

#Topic 3

José has two children with Down syndrome. When I met him three years
ago, he was exhausted from the toil that Argentina’s health system
required to get his children the care they needed. He knew he wasn’t the
only parent in this situation wrestling with such bureaucracy, and he
needed help to solve this problem.

When I heard his story, I was deeply saddened. I was determined to find
a way to ensure that all these families received the treatment they
needed and simplify reimbursement, regardless of their geographic
location or their socioeconomic situation.

In the two years working with José to develop Reindi, the platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities, we sat face to face with the CEOs of Argentina’s 3 biggest
insurance companies. We interviewed parents like José from all around
the country. We went from brainstorming to a functional, concrete app,
currently being used by José and his two children, and soon to be tested
by ten families, five doctors, and a small insurance firm.

For me, nothing is as fulfilling as building something from scratch and
watching how it impacts others. Entrepreneurship is so important to me
because I want to connect with people on a deeper level and address
their most pressing troubles. The satisfaction this brings me is what I
want to feel every day for the rest of my life.


School: Yale University

Prompt: What do you most enjoy learning?

Word limit: 250 words

Outline

-   Computer science (multidisciplinary)

Version 1

“Are you sure those are the right parts?”, a man next to me in line
asked me while at an electronics store. “Those components seem
dangerous”, the stranger continued. I explained to him that I had
watched a video about Tesla Coils online and wanted to try my hand at
making one.

He turned out to be an electronics professor at a nearby university, and
encouraged me to explore something called “Arduino”. Excited about the
possibility of expanding my electronics horizon, I ran back home and
typed it into my computer. I learned about microcontrollers and how you
could “teach” a device how to act through coding.

Throughout middle school and high school, the Internet took me through a
path of exploration. At every step on the way, I tried to combine
different areas of my life with these new topics. In sophomore year of
high school, I worked with a senior citizen care facility to apply game
programming to make an app that Parkison’s patients could use to retain
key information. The next year, I used web development knowledge to
build an image processing suite for a Satellite company that had just
moved to my city.

When I finally understood that there was something beyond “coding” my
perspective changed. The discovery of algorithms allowed me to pursue
more complex projects like a Google Maps that optimized the routes for
blind people in Buenos Aires. I am currently interested in convolutional
neural networks, which can be applied to energy grids to increase load
capacity while reducing the requirement for infrastructure investment,
something lacking in Argentina.

It was this journey that led me to realize that Computer Science is my
passion, because it can be combined with a myriad of other fields, and
because it can be used to help people in all areas of their life.

Version 2

“Those components are dangerous. Are you sure those are the right
parts?” a man next to me in line asked me while at an electronics store.
I was a pretty confident 11-year-old, and I explained to him that I had
watched a video about Tesla Coils online and wanted to try making one.

He turned out to be an electronics professor at the University of Buenos
Aires and encouraged me to explore Arduino to expand my electronics
horizon. Excited, I ran back home and typed “Arduino” into Google. I
learned about microcontrollers and how you could “teach” a device what
to do through coding. I had never heard of coding before. The fact that
you could build things that transcended the physical world made me feel
like I had just discovered magic. Anything was possible.

I later moved from single-file projects in Arduino to more complex
project structures making Windows programs. My mind was suddenly opened
to how big and feature-rich software could become. My biggest project
was in collaboration with a senior citizen care facility: an app that
Parkinson’s patients could use to retain key information. I was a very
technically focused person at the time and that project taught me that I
should care more about the people and the problem than the technology.

From there I was thrilled to discover image processing, which opened a
new pathway for computers to share their analyses and conclusions in a
way humans could easily interpret. At the same time, working at
Satellogic, a satellite startup, opened my eyes to the business aspect
of technology. I had always thought of it as purely for fun or
solidarity, but I learned that technology could be applied to solve
business challenges.

In my last year of high school, yet another world opened up when I
started developing more complex architectures, like internet-connected
apps. It was the first time I thought of software as a tool for
collaboration since people could share their work and information
through these platforms. My skill set expanded to include project
management when I led a project aimed at solving the transportation
challenges of the visually impaired in Buenos Aires. It suddenly
clicked: a solution could be turned into its own business if organized
correctly. Thus, I was introduced to the realm of startups.

After finishing school the candy jar of blockchain and more esoteric
software, like Chrome extensions and command-line interfaces, treated me
with new ways in which software could solve problems, beyond the
traditional website or app. Helping a friend with his startup (and
eventually starting my own) taught me about the long and winding road of
the entrepreneurial journey, from the first idea, to first clients, to
obtaining funding to accelerate growth.

It was this journey that led me to realize that Computer Science is my
passion. I am generally curious, and this journey also allowed me to
explore so many different fields outside of CS and get to connect with
people from diverse backgrounds on a deeper level. That is why I love
computer science.

However, learning how to introduce technology in the real world/learning
about people and how technology impacts the real world was just as
thrilling as expanding my knowledge of technology.

Version 3 (Condensed below)

“Are you sure you want those components?” asked a man at the electronics
store. I was a fairly confident 11-year-old and explained I had watched
a video and wanted to try making Tesla Coils. When he told me about
Arduino, I ran home excited and learned about microcontrollers and
“teaching” a device through coding. It felt like discovering magic.

Moving to Windows programs, I suddenly realized how feature-rich
software could become. My biggest project, an app Parkinson’s patients
could use to retain key information, taught me, though, to care more
about people and the problem than the technology.

From there I was thrilled to discover image processing, a new pathway
for computers to share analyses and conclusions that humans could easily
interpret. At the same time, working at a satellite startup revealed how
technology could solve business challenges.

Yet another world emerged when I started developing more complex
architectures, like internet-connected apps, that allowed people to
share work and information. Meanwhile, leading a project aimed at
solving transportation challenges of the visually impaired in Buenos
Aires expanded my skill set to include project management.

Then the candy jar of blockchain and more esoteric software, like Chrome
extensions and command-line interfaces, treated me with how software can
solve problems beyond traditional websites or apps. I also embarked on
the long and winding entrepreneurial road while launching my own
startup.

Computer Science is definitely my intellectual passion. However, equally
fascinating is learning about other fields and connecting with people
from diverse backgrounds//learning about people and how technology
impacts the real world/how to introduce technology into the real world.

Discard pile

That is why I love computer science.

, from the first idea, to first clients, to obtaining funding to
accelerate growth,

It also suddenly clicked: a solution could be turned into its own
business if organized correctly. Thus, I was introduced to the realm of
startups.

Previous Paragraphs

“Those components are dangerous. Are you sure those are the right
parts?” asked a man at the electronics store. I was a pretty confident
11-year-old, and I explained to him that I had watched a video about
Tesla Coils online and wanted to try making one. When he told me about
Arduino, I ran home excited and started learning about microcontrollers
and “teaching” a device through coding. Building things that transcended
the physical world made me feel like I had just discovered magic.
Anything was possible.

My biggest project was in collaboration with a senior citizen care
facility: an app that Parkinson’s patients could use to retain key
information. I was a very technically focused person at the time and
that project taught me that I should care more about the people and the
problem than the technology.

At the same time, working at Satellogic, a satellite startup, opened my
eyes to the business aspect of technology. I had always thought of it as
purely for fun or solidarity, but I learned that technology could be
applied to solve business challenges.

My skill set expanded to include project management when I led a project
aimed at solving the transportation challenges of the visually impaired
in Buenos Aires. It suddenly clicked: a solution could be turned into
its own business if organized correctly. Thus, I was introduced to the
realm of startups.

Helping a friend with his startup (and eventually starting my own)
taught me about the long and winding road of the entrepreneurial
journey, from the first idea, to first clients, to obtaining funding to
accelerate growth.

It was this journey that led me to realize that Computer Science is my
passion. I am generally curious, and this journey also allowed me to
explore so many different fields outside of CS and get to connect with
people from diverse backgrounds on a deeper level. That is why I love
computer science.

Notes

-   Interdisciplinary -> tech in venture capital, cleantech, help people
    in ngo settings.

-   Love for problem solving or how satisfying it is to build something
    that you can call your own

-   I were able to go to yale, i could go to the Digital humanities lab
    or do research there.

Final Version

#Topic 1

“Are you sure you want those components?” asked a man at the electronics
store. I was a fairly confident 11-year-old, and I explained that I had
watched a video and wanted to try making Tesla Coils. When he told me
about Arduino, I ran home excited and immediately started learning about
microcontrollers and “teaching” a device through coding. It felt like
discovering magic.

I moved from single-file projects in Arduino to more complex project
structures making Windows programs. My mind was suddenly blown away by
how big and feature-rich software could become.

From there I experienced the thrill of discovering image processing,
which opened a new pathway for computers to share analyses and
conclusions in a way humans could easily interpret.

In my last year of high school, I furthered my interests by developing
more complex architectures, like internet-connected apps. It was the
first time I thought of software as a tool for collaboration since
people could share their work and information through these platforms.

After finishing school, the candy jar of blockchain and more esoteric
software, like Chrome extensions and command-line interfaces, treated me
with new ways in which software could solve problems, beyond the
traditional website or app.

It was this journey that led me to realize that learning computer
science is my passion. I love how each discovery exposes me to new
fields and connects me with people from diverse backgrounds.

Why do these areas appeal to you?

Computer Science and Mathematics appeal to me because it helps solve
problems from many different industries and disciplines. If two
seemingly different problems can be reduced to the same computational or
mathematical problem, then solving it once can have a wider effect.

Economics appeals to me because it lets us predict how people will
behave when presented with different incentives in a society governed by
markets. This is crucial information to improve our quality of life.


Please tell us how you have spent the last two summers (or vacations
between school years), including any jobs you have held.

Rev. 1

I spent the past two summers developing apps for both fun and profit. In
addition, in 2018 I traveled to the Netherlands to represent Argentina
in the International Science Olympiad and brought back a bronze medal. I
was then awarded a scholarship to go to Israel and learn about the
country’s history. I visited cities like Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Masada.

In 2019 I joined a field research team studying the relationship between
light intensity and vegetation development in Panama. After I came back
home I started developing Couponara, a web platform that allows small
and medium businesses to grow without the need to pour money into
advertising.

Rev. 2 (G)

I spent a good part of the past two summers developing apps for both fun
and profit.

In 2018 I also traveled to the Netherlands to represent Argentina in the
International Science Olympiad and brought back a bronze medal. I was
also awarded a scholarship to study in Israel and spent three weeks
learning about Jewish culture and history, and visiting sites of
interest in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Masada.

In 2019, also on a field-research scholarship, I joined a team studying
the relationship between light intensity and vegetation development in
Panama. When I returned home I focused on developing Couponara, a web
platform for small and medium retailers to manage commercial promotions
and customer relationships.


Le dernier souhait de la grand-mère bis avant de mourir était de manger
des croissants

Crear una historia y un personaje para un visabuelo o visabuela de
acuerdo con lo aprendido en clase. Agregar imágenes. Tener en cuenta:

-   Su origen y contexto familiar.

-   Vivencias, como era su familia, conformada, qué comían, cómo entró
    en contacto con el sionismo, su relación con este.

-   De qué trabajaba.

-   Que hobby tenía.

-   Ideología política.

-   En que aliot estuvo.

-   Cómo consiguió el boleto, en qué barco fue, a qué parte de israel
    llegó, primeros trabajos, lugar, contexto histórico del lugar, etc.

-   Su idea de judío nuevo.

-   Nombre nuevo que tuvo.

Histoire

Esquisse

Jean Pierre Polnareff

Su nombre era Gabriel Jair Altmark Magnetovich. Nació en Gdansk, Polonia
en el año 1887, en el seno de una familia religiosa jasídica. Sus padres
eran muy conservadores, pero él no tanto. Durante el proceso de
emancipación se produjeron muchas disputas dentro de su familia. Por
ejemplo, él recuerda que en la universidad lo invitaron a un cumpleaños,
junto con su padre, en el que había cerdo para comer y su padre se negó
a ir. Este, por tener orígenes más tradicionales, muchas veces entraba
en conflicto con los hijos, tres en total, que al estar más vinculados
con la cultura europea, se empezaron a alejar de las reglas estrictas y
estructuradas del jasidismo.

Sus dos hermanos disfrutaban de ir a jugar a la pelota con el resto de
los chicos del vecindario, pero Jean era una persona más tranquila e
introvertida. De chico le gustaba de tocar la guitarra. No tenía ningún
género favorito, solo disfrutaba de poder reproducir canciones que
alguna vez había escuchado que le hayan gustado. Era muy conocido dentro
de su kehilá por ser el mejor en interpretar canciones de la avdalá, por
lo que el rabino con frecuencia le pedía que su música acompañara a las
ceremonias religiosas de los días festivos.

Cuando comenzaron las radios a volverse populares, Jean se encargó de
ser una de las primeras personas de su pueblo en tener una. La utilizaba
principalmente para aprender sobre nuevas canciones para poder tocar.

Fue a través de esta que una vez logró captar una radio pirata de una
emisora cercana a su pueblo. Escuchando esta estación fue que se enteró
por primera vez de la idea del sionismo, pero quedó de alguna forma
dormida la idea dentro de él por varios años.

De chico, al ser introvertido, gastaba mucho de su tiempo estudiando y
leyendo mientras el resto de los chicos jugaban. Por eso, cuando creció,
al igual que sus hermanos, se volvió comerciante. La diferencia entre él
y sus hermanos, y el resto de los judíos comerciantes de su poblado, fue
que era muy educado y culto, por lo que le resultaba fácil conseguir
importantes acuerdos con gentiles, que se veían impresionados con su
conocimiento sobre la cultura no judía.

En 1930, comenzó a crecer en polonia el sentimiento antisemita, y
comenzó a escasear el trabajo. Por estas razones, Jean se sumó a la
oleada de más de 200.000 judíos que emigraron a francia en este período.
Emigró justo después de la invasión Nazi.

En Francia demostró ante el resto de la sociedad que tenía grandes
habilidades como comerciante, por lo que se volvió banquero para los
Rothschild. Apenas había llegado, en una búsqueda de una sociedad donde
se pudiese asimilar, los Nazis invadieron Francia en la Batalla de
Francia ese mismo año. Sabiendo lo que eran capaces de hacer ellos,
basándose en lo que había visto en Polonia, inmediatamente decidió irse,
pero había aprendido. Se tenía que ir lejos, a un lugar donde los Nazis
no llegasen, y en el cual se sientese seguro.

Sentirse seguro, tener una vida donde pudiese aplicar sus tradiciones
culturales libremente. Estos conceptos le recordaron a la idea de
sionismo, sobre la cual había escuchado por primera vez en la radio
polaca durante su infancia.

En el momento no le había prestado atención, porque no le parecía
pertinente a sus situación lo que mencionaban en la radio. Pero ahora,
sus situación era distinta, ya no era un niño ignorante que vivía en la
paz de su pueblo campestre, era un trabajador adulto, que se daba cuenta
del estado de inferioridad en el que se encontraba en la sociedad
europea.

Decidió entonces irse a Palestina, en ese momento bajo mandato
Británico.

Había un problema importante sin embargo, la carta blanca le impedía la
entrada, pero con la ayuda de los Rothschild, para los que estaba
trabajando en el momento, consiguió entrar.

Estaba muy nervioso los días previos a embarcarse. Comenzó a cuestionar
todos sus pensamientos actuales. Sabía que iba a tener que adaptarse a
una nueva ideología. Él pertenecía a la clase media alta, desde que se
volvió exitoso en el comercio, pero sabía que la sociedad en su destino
no estaba lo suficientemente desarrollada como para soportar
económicamente gente en la misma situación en la que vivía en francia y
polonia. Iba a tener que convertirse, a medias, en un judío nuevo. Ya no
podía dedicarse completamente a las altas finanzas, iba a tener que
dedicarse al trabajo manual, al trabajo hebreo. Iba a tener que irse a
un kibutz a sembrar, cosechar, todas cosas que no le gustaban.

Al final decidió continuar con su plan e irse de Europa, por su propia
seguridad. Se embarcó en el barco Olam Jadash. Durante el viaje decidió
que su nuevo nombre en la tierra prometida sería Gabriel Jair Altmark
Magnetovich.

Perteneció por sus características demográficas y por la época en la que
hizo aliá, a la quinta oleada.

Como tenía una cantidad considerada de riquezas acumuladas, logró
asentarse en las afueras de la ciudad incipiente de Beer Sheva, no tuve
que instalarse en el medio del desierto como algunos de los pobladores
de principio del siglo. No pudo seguir con su nivel de vida sin embargo,
la Jewish Company no pudo liquidar todas sus propiedades a precio de
mercado con tan poco tiempo. Al llegar descubrió que la sociedad estaba
más desarrollada de lo que él creía, pero no tanto como la europea. Usó
su conocimiento para pensar qué tipo de negocio podía abrir que
resultase exitoso. Era claramente un negocio de comida. No importa cuán
desarrollada estuviese la economía, la gente tenía que comer, y decidió
que iba a ser un lugar de comida kosher.

;===========

; FIN

;===========

Consiguió entrar por su alianza con los Rothschild debido al trabajo que
había conseguido como banquero. Cuando había llegado a Francia,

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Jews_in_France#20th_century

En 1940 los nazis invaden Francia.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_France

Trabajaba de

Su familia consistía de

Situación económica

Visión respecto a la religión

Vida escolar de los hijos (escuela judía, goi)

Decisiones que haya que tomar

Finał


Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period
of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.

Inti is blind and works at an NGO devoted to improve the welfare of the
blind community. We met socially over a year ago and he illustrated to
me the daily challenges faced by blind people by describing the
difficulties and risks of visiting his grandmother. It wasn’t that she
lived too far or that he didn’t know the streets, but the famously
indisciplined Buenos Aires drivers made intersections unsafe,
scaffolding and unmarked trenches left by public works crews popped up
everywhere, delivery trucks blocked sidewalks, and so on. As usual, my
mind switched into problem-solving mode. I felt confident I could create
an app to offer Inti and the rest of the blind community optimal routes
and to keep track of transitory obstacles. After all, I had access to
very powerful tools and I had solved other complicated problems before.
A few days later I persuaded a couple of friends to give it a try.

The problem, however, appeared to become more and more complicated as
the days went by. Technology was not the issue, our lack of awareness of
the experience of a blind person and our built-in biases were. For
example, we took for granted that users would find it natural to
interact with the app using the phone’s touchscreen interface. We were
wrong, so we launched into designing audio features to provide them with
feedback and in doing so I discovered that, in contrast to the Android
platform, the iPhone’s accessibility support was wonderful. As I dug
deeper into the iPhone accessibility functionality I was surprised by
the elegance and the intelligence of the solutions implemented there. I
was in awe of the effort and care that had been invested by a host of
anonymous developers. For the first time in my experience a piece of
tech revealed to me the good will and the compassion of many smart
people whom I would probably never meet. I felt close to them, was
inspired by them, and wanted to become one of them. I was familiar with
the term “software with a social purpose”, but only then did I started
to get the depth of the meaning.

The weeks went by and we worked around one obstacle after another, but
what we had underestimated were the non-technical issues. For example,
the Public Works department bureaucrats didn’t think our project was
worth their time , so they did not give us access to work schedules. We
were not prepared to let that stop us though, and our frustration
spawned an experiment in crowdsourcing with students at our school. Many
of our schoolmates agreed to watch and report obstacles as they walked
to and from school. Their input helped us validate crowdsourcing as a
viable and effective approach and as with “social purpose”,
“crowdsourcing”, here, started meaning something completely different to
me. I had talked about “crowdsourcing” so many times, but as a solution,
an approach. In this case, that crowd had names and faces and I could
see the impact of their volunteering. I had heard “it takes a village to
raise a child” and I then realized that it takes a community to build
software with a social purpose.

When we showed Inti and his colleagues what we had prototyped and how we
were going about implementing the app, they were incredulous at first,
then excited, then emotional. Watching Inti master the app interface
made me feel fulfilled as I had never felt before. It made me realize I
want to dedicate myself to socially minded work in the future.

Rice is lauded for creating a collaborative atmosphere that enhances the
quality of life for all members of our campus community. The Residential
College System is heavily influenced by the unique life experiences and
cultural traditions each student brings. What personal perspectives
would you contribute to life at Rice?

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled pulled aside and was asked to explain the
vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


Reflecting on your unique relationship with the applicant, please
comment on his or her character and abilities. We especially welcome a
statement that addresses the applicant's potential success within and
contributions to a college community.

I first meet Iñaki Arango 4 months ago during an online Startup School
Program developed by Y Combinator, a well-respected startup accelerator
program in Silicon Valley. We were both taking part in the program. I am
developing an application to help parents manage and track all
documentation of children with special needs. Since I have mainly a
business background (25+ years international management experience in
many different industries + an MBA at an Ivy League Business School in
the US), I was looking to partner with software developers with
knowledge about blockchain technologies. This technology, which started
with bitcoin, is at a very early stage; the first applications are being
developed worldwide and is attracting the best and brightest engineers.
These developers are very hard to find and attract, thus very expensive.
I’ve spoken with many different software houses and senior engineers but
could not find available outstanding candidates. I was looking to
attract young engineers who will be enthusiastic about solving this
problem, since we have 2 children with special needs at home.

So I looked in the Startup School program platform searching for all
company participants developing solutions in blockchain. They were at
least 100 blockchain developers, out of 50.000 startups in across many
industries from all over the world. I spoke with many of them but
decided to focus on those located in Buenos Aires where I’m currently
residing. Proximity is key to work together, specially at this early
stage, I thought. Nonetheless, I arranged video calls with many of
founders with blockchain experience around the world to pick their brain
and ask for advice.

I contacted the company Pöhl which appeared on the platform’s filtered
short list. Iñaki and 2 other co-founders appeared developing a solution
to facilitate the uploading and retrieval of files to the blockchain.
Iñaki responded immediately to my message and we arranged to meet at a
Starbucks coffee in Buenos Aires.

When I arrived, I could not believe I was meeting with these three
17-year-old high school classmates. My Gosh, I thought, I could be their
father. But I must confess I loved it, because these 3 youngsters seemed
so articulate and smart I could not believe it. I was extremely
impressed. It was clear from the very beginning that Inaki was the team
leader. I’ve interviewed and worked with many junior professionals
around the world, but frankly it’s rare to find great product managers
that young.

After explaining the project, Iñaki understood it very quickly and
suggested several ideas. This seemed incredible to me, considering this
was his first encounter with the subject and the industry. I requested a
proposal to develop the proof of concept and prototype for my
application. Would you do it? I asked. A few weeks prior I met with
another team who after reviewing my presentation, felt they were not
prepared (after 10+ years of tech experience) to develop such a
challenging solution.

I have requested several proposals for product development in my
business experience, and the best ones are those which provide an
overview of the outcome/final product, the prototype/ proof of concept,
whatever that is, at least graphically or with a video, etc. This means
the developers work at their own risk for a few days to stand out and
get the job. In their proposal, it’s not that they say what they will
do, but they actually do it in very rustic way. That’s exactly what
Iñaki did. He developed the project road map and prepared a proposal for
me to review and approve. He presented himself as the project leader and
negotiated the fees in a logical way.

I decided to hire Iñaki and he quickly assembled a team. He also
suggested a project management and collaboration tool, the technology to
use, and allocated resources effectively.

After working with the team, for a month, it’s clear to me that Iñaki is
outgoing, responsible, delivers progress according to schedule and knows
what he is talking about. It’s obvious he is very confident, and
comfortable working under pressure. He explains progress and the
technology in a clear and concise way. Iñaki is very resourceful; for
him everything seems to have a solution or a way to develop it. I also
noticed he is highly respected by his classmates.

I am convinced Iñaki would be a great asset for your school. He is
bilingual, he is concerned with real world problems which affect many
people and wants to find ways to solve them. He has many different
interests and seeks to have a meaningful life contributing positively to
society.

On the one hand I’d like that Iñaki stays in Argentina so that we can
make progress with our project. Everything is to be done. However, I
realize that if he gets high quality education like the one provided at
your School, he is an unpolished diamond with tremendous potential and
only God knows how far or high he can go. I would not miss the
opportunity to have him as a student.

I’d be happy to answer any questions you might have to endorse Iñaki’s
candidacy.

Sincerely,

Jose Maria ABERG COBO


I am very pleased to find myself writing this letter of recommendation
for Iñaki Arango, who designed the software for Reindi, a platform that
facilitates access to services for families with children with
disabilities. I received my MBA from the Amos Tuck School of Business at
Dartmouth College, and in my 25+ years of international management
experience, I’ve interviewed and worked with many junior professionals
around the world. Frankly, it’s rare to find such competent product
managers that young. Iñaki embodies insightful intelligence and
technological savvy together with human warmth and compassion, a
combination that fuels his drive to find technological solutions to
real-life problems of real people.

In 2019, I began developing an application to help parents in Argentina
manage and track all documentation for children with disabilities, and I
was looking for software developers familiar with blockchain technology,
which were hard to find. I contacted easily over 100 groups from around
the world, and I finally connected with Iñaki through Y Combinator’s
Startup School, Silicon Valley’s most well-known startup accelerator.
When I contacted Pöhl, the startup where Iñaki and his two co-founders
developed a solution to facilitate file management with blockchain,
Iñaki responded immediately to my message, and we arranged to meet at a
local Starbucks. I was quite surprised when three 17-year-old high
school students presented themselves, but they were so articulate and
smart that I was nothing less than extremely impressed.

Iñaki was clearly the team leader, and he understood my requirements
very quickly and immediately suggested several ideas, even though he had
no previous experience with health information processing. I asked for a
proposal to develop a proof of concept and a prototype of the
application, a request that had been turned down a few weeks earlier by
a team with 10+ years of tech experience because they felt they could
not develop such a challenging solution. Preparing a proposal takes
significant work at a contractor’s expense. Iñaki returned a few days
later with a project road map and a proposal for me to review and
approve. What’s more, he presented himself as Project Leader and
negotiated the fees in a mature and professional manner. I decided to
hire Iñaki, and he quickly assembled a team. He also recommended a
project management and collaboration tool and the technology to use, and
allocated resources very effectively.

As our team grew, I also noticed Iñaki was highly looked up to by his
teammates. Whenever they ran into difficulties or weren’t sure what to
do, they would always turn to Iñaki– and he would always have an answer
or be willing to take the time to see how the problem could be solved.
Iñaki’s respect for his teammates was reflected in his willingness to
share his knowledge and help them learn and grow.

Developing the software for Reindi was not without its bumps in the
road, but Iñaki was able to shift gears completely when necessary. Our
first version was a health-insurance focused blockchain app. However, it
became clear that health insurance companies were not terribly
interested in making services more easily accessible. Our second and
final version, therefore, was parent-focused, and much more efficient
not only for parents but also for health insurance companies and the
Ministry of Health. Iñaki was able to both explain the program to health
professionals, health-insurance executives, and parents in language that
they could understand as well as incorporate their comments and
observations into the functioning of the application.

Iñaki is very resourceful, and his attitude is that everything has a
solution or there is some way to develop one. He works under pressure
with a calm and ease that inspires confidence in both his team and his
clients. He is a natural leader and naturally responsible, he delivers
according to schedule, and he knows what he is talking about. I would
like to add that I myself have 2 children with learning disabilities,
and Iñaki’s sincere empathy with the challenges that I and other parents
whose children have special needs face and his commitment to help was
truly heartwarming.

Iñaki is truly a gem of a human being, and he will be an asset to your
research program. I am sure he will go on to introduce innovative
advances in his field and touch people’s lives throughout his
professional life. It is therefore with nothing less than my strongest
conviction that I recommend him to your program.

I will be happy to answer any questions you might have regarding Iñaki.

Sincerely,

Jose Maria ABERG COBO

Tel. 549 11 3164 6600


List a few words or phrases that describe your ideal college community.

Rev. 1

-   Student’s mental health is held as something very important. Is not
    an afterthought that comes after acadecis.

-   Students aren’t asked to focus their full efforts on academics. They
    should have the space to learn outside the classroom. People’s
    various cultures, traditions and hobbies have taught each student an
    immense amount of things, and very different in each student. The
    college community should entice students to learn from each other.

Collaborative atmosphere, willing to share and understand different
cultures and values, willing to learn from each other, treating mental
health as a priority, promoting healthy competition, kindness and
willingness to help each other, striving for a better for a more fair
and just society, fostering a sense of belonging and identity.

Rev. FINAL (G)

Academic excellence, collaborative atmosphere, willing to share and
understand different cultures and values, willing to learn from each
other, treating mental health as a priority, promoting healthy
competition, kindness and willingness to help each other, striving for a
more fair and just society, fostering a sense of belonging and identity.


List the titles of the books you read for pleasure that you enjoyed most
in the past year.

Rev. FINAL

“Lean Startup” by Eric Ries, “Lord of the Flies” by William Golding,
“Milk and Honey” by Rupi Kaur and “Animal Farm” by George Orwell.


1.  List the titles of the films, concerts, shows, exhibits, lectures
    and other entertainments you enjoyed most in the past year.

Rev. Final

Suits (Series), Silicon Valley, Final Space, Atypical, Thank you for
arguing (Blinkist by Jay Heinrichs), Doing Philosophy (Blinkist by
Timothy Williamson), Explained (Series), Brooklyn 99, The Politician,
The Good Place, Greenhouse Academy, ColdFusion (Youtube channel),
Business Casual (Youtube channel), Inside Bill's Brain: Decoding Bill
Gates, Aladdin (2019 Remake), project management lectures at Accenture
and software developing lectures at IBM.


List the titles of the print, electronic publications and websites you
read regularly.

Rev. FINAL

Reddit, Medium, Dev.to, Business Insider, Wired, Blinkist App,
Bodybuilding.com, GitHub and Stack Overflow.


List the titles of the required readings from courses during the school
year or summer that you enjoyed most in the past year.

Rev. FINAL

Elie Wiesel's Nobel Lecture, “Earthly Jerusalem, heavenly Jerusalem” by
Kevin Ary Levin, “To whom does privacy belong” by Pilar G. Rodríguez,
“Capitalism with blood traction” by Emiliano Gulloa and “From Animals
into Gods: A Brief History of Humankind” by Yuval Noah Harari.


Rice is lauded for creating a collaborative atmosphere that enhances the
quality of life for all members of our campus community. The Residential
College System is heavily influenced by the unique life experiences and
cultural traditions each student brings. What personal perspectives
would you contribute to life at Rice?

-   http://www.toddlertime.com/mh/terms/empathy-nguyen.htm

-   D

Rev. 1

Everything starts with Juan, my chemistry teacher. who invited me to an
after-class science club. I wasn’t very interested in science at the
time but he insisted and convinced me to give it a try.

He was different from my other teachers. Not only did he make sure that
we understood every topic thoroughly but he was also concerned for us on
a personal level. I grew very close to him and continued attending the
club, becoming more and more interested in science.

We had to train a lot, since it was the first time I was learning
physics and chemistry, but I finally won the national competition. This
meant, however, that my situation was going to change. I was no longer
representing myself, but my country, and I was going to do it together
with a team of kids I knew nothing about. Moreover, we trained in
another city, with exclusive trainers, so I wasn’t able to spend time
with Juan. The months that followed were tough and we were under a lot
of pressure. But it was this pressure, that allowed us to come together
as a true team, supporting each other, and helping each other learn and
grow. It was the first time I was actually proud of being part of a
team, and I learned the real value of teamwork. They allowed me to open
up and become more social.

Working together, after months of dedication we won four bronze medals
and a silver one. The first thing I wanted to do after the awards
ceremony was to come back and tell Juan the news, to thank him for the
faith he put on me, a kid who knew nothing about science.

It was summer vacation when I came back, so I had to wait until classes
started to be able to find him at school, so I waited patiently. A few
weeks before the break ended, though, I got the devastating news that he
had died of a heart attack. I couldn’t believe it at first, I didn’t
want to believe it. I was never going to be able to talk to him again,
to thank him for the mark he had had on my life. I was wrecked.

A few weeks later, the principal called me to see the plaque they had
put up in his honour. I started to cry as soon as I saw it. Tha piece of
metal didn’t “honour” him. He had put countless hours to make the life
of many students at my school better, that plaque wasn’t enough, so I
decided to do something about it.

In his honour, I put my efforts towards restarting the science club,
giving other students the same opportunity I had. Juan wasn’t there
anymore, so I had to step up and start teaching physics. All this was
extremely hard and painful for me, but after the first year, I realized
I had developing a passion for passing on the knowledge I acquire. By
the end of the year I found a professor who would teach the students
science, so I moved on to teaching basic algorithms to kids interested
in the informatics olympiads.

Rev. 2 - 554 words

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The day the doctor told
me I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to use a
plastic vest all around my torso.

The vest could be noticed even if it was under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that may cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me significantly. Running, playing sports and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. I wasn’t able to play with my
friends. Moreover, every time I went through airport security I got
pulled pulled apart and was asked to give explanations for the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. The thought of having a
piece of plastic around my body pressing my chest made me feel out of
air. I would start hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.
After a while, these events started occurring less and less often, as I
learned to live with it. To be able to cope, I took it off for one hour
a day and enjoy the resulting freedom.

After coming to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year
ago, due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having used the vest
not having something pressing my chest felt liberating. I started
enjoying again all the activities I had lost touch with, but after a
while, I started experiencing powerful back pain.

I found out from the doctor that it was caused by the lack of muscle
supporting my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time ever.
It’s been a whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a
love for it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery, of having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its negative
aspect. One wrong move, and I could end up paralyzed from the head down.
Even if the surgery goes as planned, I wouldn’t be able to exercise or
perform any other big movement for a year, and I would lose flexibility
for life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth
the sacrifice. I will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo surgery this
February.

Overall, this experience has allowed me to grow personally, to teach me
that even when you seem in the worst possible situation, with
concentrated efforts one can reach a better state. This experience has
also turned me much more sensitive and open minded. I used to have
trouble understanding other people and their problems. Having had to use
the vest has helped me understand those with a disability. NOTA

Rev. 3 - 495 words

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The day the doctor told
me I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to use a
plastic vest all around my torso.

The vest could be noticed even if it was under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do any activity
like running, playing sports and riding a bike because the vest didn’t
allow me to hit the ground without getting significantly. I wasn’t able
to play with my friends.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. The thought of having a
piece of plastic around my body pressing my chest made me feel out of
air. I would start hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.
After a while, these events started occurring less and less often, as I
learned to live with it. To be able to cope, I took it off for one hour
a day and enjoy the resulting freedom.

After coming to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year
ago, I was able to take it off permanently. It felt weird at first.
After years of having used the vest not having something pressing my
chest felt liberating. I started enjoying again all the activities I had
lost touch with, but after a while, I started experiencing back pain.

I found out from the doctor that it was caused by the lack of muscle
supporting my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time ever.
It’s been a whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a
love for it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery, of having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its negative
aspect. I won’t be able to exercise or perform any other big movement
for a year, and I will lose flexibility for life. I’ve thought about it
long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the sacrifice. I will allow me
to go through my life without fear of damaging my spine. I'm proud to
say I will undergo surgery this February.

Overall, this experience has allowed me to grow personally, to teach me
that even when you seem in the worst possible situation, with
concentrated efforts one can reach a better state. This experience has
also turned me much more sensitive and open minded. I used to have
trouble understanding other people and their problems. Having had to use
the vest has helped me understand those with a disability.

Rev. 4 - Recortes T

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso all the time.

The vest was noticeable even under a shirt, so people pointed it out,
and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was limited in a
number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play outside
because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything that might
cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on would hurt
me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike were
completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled pulled aside and was asked to explain the
vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing my chest felt liberating. I started
enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but after a
while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
that allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a condition
I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

Overall, this experience has allowed me to grow personally, to teach me
that even when you seem to be in the worst possible situation, with
concentrated efforts one can reach a better state. This experience has
also turned me much more sensitive and open minded. I used to have
trouble understanding other people and their problems. Having had to use
the vest has helped me understand those with a disability.

Rev. 5

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was noticeable even under a shirt, so people pointed it out,
and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was limited in a
number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play outside
because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything that might
cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on would hurt
me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike were
completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled pulled aside and was asked to explain the
vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing my chest felt liberating. I started
enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but after a
while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

Overall, this experience has allowed me to grow personally. In these
hectic and fast-moving times, we seldom stop to think about others. The
importance of empathy is often underestimated. I used to lack it and
care only about my friends, my hobbies, my career; there wasn’t time for
anyone else. It was after my experience with scoliosis that I realized
how it felt to feel alone and understood, and recognized the massive
importance of taking a moment to be sensitive to other’s feelings and
circumstances, and to help solve their problems. This is crucial if we
want to evolve as a society.

Rev. FINAL

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn’t go play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn’t do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled aside and was asked to explain the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It’s been a
whole year, and I’ve never stopped attending. I developed a love for it
because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


Part 1

English

The PocRoc® SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Rapid Test Ki(t Colloidal Gold)is used
for qualitative detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus nucleocapsid protein which
is an important conserved structural protein of SARS-CoV-2 in human
nasal/oropharyngeal samples.The detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid
protein antigen can be used to assist the diagnosis of novel coronavirus
infection and is helpful for the early detection of novel coronavirus
pneumonia infection in the latent period.

Spanish

La Prueba Rápida PocRoc® de Antígenos del SARS-CoV-2 (Oro Coloidal) se
utiliza para la detección cualitativa de la nucleocápside del virus del
SARS-CoV-2, que es una importante proteína estructural del SARS-CoV-2
conservada en muestras nasales/orofaríngeas humanas. La detección del
antígeno de la nucleocápside del SARS-CoV-2 se puede utilizar para
ayudar al diagnóstico de la infección por el nuevo coronavirus y es útil
para la detección temprana de la infección por neumonía por el nuevo
coronavirus en el período latente.


There is a breadth of intellectual opportunities here at Rice. Further
explain your intended major and other areas of academic focus you may
explore.

-   Creo que me permitiría desarrollar soluciones tecnológicas que
    permitan mejorar cómo vivimos en sociedad.

-   Even If I choose not to follow a career path not related to
    computer. This major lays the groundwork for developing problem
    solving skills. Computer Science is not about programming, it’s
    about solving problems in an efficient problems. It’s about
    analyzing the trade-offs of every solution, and choosing the best
    one for each specific case. This is not a simple task, and this
    major can even nudge me a little bit in the right direction, it will
    be a great success.

-   Solving problems helps society.

Rev. 1

Unlike commonly thought, computer science isn’t about programming, it’s
about problem solving. One learns to recognize and understand the
trade-offs of several solutions to a problem and is able to judge which
solutions fits the case best. That is what I love, and what I want to
learn during college.

The strictly theoretical use of computer science isn’t exactly what I’m
interested in though. I believe that one must understand the context in
which solutions are going to be implemented, and predict if the impact
they are going to have in society is going to be positive. Understanding
this impact is crucial, and that’s why I’m really interested in COMP 300
and 301. Moreover, understanding other areas is important when
understand one’s solution in context, so I think COMP 340, 347 and 380
will help me go a long way.

Rev. 2

I’m not only interested in the theoretical use of computer science, but
also the practical aspects. I believe one must understand the context in
which one’s solutions are going to be implemented and the impact they
will have, so the Society in the Information Age and the Ethics &
Accountability in CS courses seem to be a perfect fit for me.

Moreover, I like to mix pure CS with other disciplines. I was thrilled
to find that Rice has courses that allow me to do this, like the courses
on Evolutionary Bioinformatics and Computational Microbial Forensic.

I’d also like to be prepared for possible job interviews, and for that,
the Practical Problem-solving will be of much help.

Rev. 3 (propuesta de T y G) FINAL

At Rice, I want to focus on core computer science and bioinformatics.

I have been programming, for fun and for profit, since middle school so
I am familiar with technology and with the practice of software
development. While designing health-related applications I have been
confronted with multiple accessibility, bias and ethics issues and would
like the opportunity to learn from Rice’s substantial bioethics
curricula.

Finally, as an entrepreneur I have been exposed to the difficulty of
turning an idea into a product and taking it to market. I intend to
pursue entrepreneurial projects at Rice and I look forward to taking
advantage of the workshops and mentorship offered by the Liu Idea Lab.

Propuesta Iñaki en base a las correcciones de Tomás de los otros ensayos

At Rice, I want to focus on core computer science and bioinformatics.

In the past few years I have created several programs for fun and
profit, but its was through the development of a navigation app for the
blind community and a health reimbursement platform for people with
disabilities that I developed a passion for applying computer science to
health for the benefit of society. While designing health-related
applications I have been confronted with multiple accessibility, bias
and ethics issues and would like the opportunity to learn from Rice’s
substantial bioethics curricula.

Finally, as an entrepreneur I have been exposed to the difficulty of
turning an idea into a product and taking it to market. I intend to
pursue entrepreneurial projects at Rice and I look forward to taking
advantage of the workshops and mentorship offered by the Liu Idea Lab.


Tuve que comprar las plazas para la segunda ronda de subject tests antes
de haber recibido los resultados de la primera tanda, entonces contraté
uno de más por si tenía que volver a rendir uno. Como me fue mejor en
los de matemática de lo que creía, no tuve que hacerlo y el día del
examen me sobraba. Como no sabía si me iban a devolver la plata por el
que no hice, me tiré al lance e hice el de español.

ES MUY FÁCIL PARA HISPANOHABLANTES NATIVOS

Las preguntas eran del estilo:

Carla se quería cortar el pelo, entonces agarró _______.

a)  una mariposa

b)  unas tijeras

c)  un serrucho

d)  un camión


Week 5 - Question-Based Review of Lecture

September 30, 2022

Module 1 - Group 1

Module 2 - Group 2

Module 3 - Group 3

Module 4 - Group 2

Module 5 - Group 3

Module 6 - Group 1

Practice Quiz Questions

Arrythmia is a term used to describe abnormal rhythm of the heart. Two
ways that arrythmia can manifest is as bradycardia or tachycardia.
Describe the effects of bradycardia and tachycardia on patterns of heart
rhythm. List one possible health outcome and one possible treatment of
each.

When a person has bradycardia, his hear beats fewer times per minute
during rest than is expected. Humans’ rest heart beats are usually
between 60 and 100 beats per minute, but the heart of a person with
bradycardia will usually beat less at less than 60 BBM.

Possible health outcome: It can cause shortness of breath,
lighheadedness and possibly make you faint.

Possible health treatment: One possible treatment for bradycardia is the
installation of a pace-maker. This device is connected to the nerve
centers of the heart and can artificially trigger the contraction of the
atriums and ventricles. Since it has a tiny computer inside regulating
the beats, it can “force” the heart into a normal rhythm.

A person has tachycardia when his heart beat goes over 100 beats per
minute. This is not necessarily a bad thing since most people’s heart
beats usually go over a 100 BBM when they exercise, but it can be
concerning if this is occurring while at rest.

Possible health outcome: I can cause chest pains and can lead to a
stroke if sever tachycardia is left untreated.

Possible health treatment: It is usually treated with medication, but
more drastic measures, such as the installation of a pacemaker, can be
taken.

Microevolution occurs as a result of change in allele (genes that vary
between individuals) frequency in a population from one generation to
the next. List two examples of observed microevolution that have had an
effect on human health (positive or negative). Describe how natural
selection causes microevolution.

Natural selection is the process through which populations of organisms
transformed and differentiated themselves throughout millions of years
of evolution. Organisms are able to survive if they can feed themselves
and reproduce. Those individuals whose traits allow them to thrive in
their environment are more likely to live longer and produce more
offspring than individuals with less advantageous traits.

Since individuals inherit their parents traits (through their genes),
with time an increasing percentage of a species population has these
“advantageous” traits and a decreasing percentage has the less
advantageous traits.

An example of microevolution is the development of pesticide resistant
lice. In recent times humans have developed pesticides that kill lice
that are present in childrens heads. There were some individuals that
had genes that made them resistant to these pesticides, but they were
not the entirety of the population. When we started treating the
children with pesticides, the lice without resistance dies, but the ones
with resistance survived. After a while most lice where resistant to
pesticides, and that is the story of how the lice population evolved.

Another example of microevolution, similar to that of lice, is the
development of resistance to DDT in the mosquito population in the last
century. A chemical called DDT was widely used to kill mosquitos and
prevent the spread of malaria all around the world. With time, the
originally smaller portion of the mosquito poputlation that had natural
resistance against DDT was the only one left. They continue reproducing,
since their reproduction was not hindered by the spray of DDT, and went
on to become a significant portion of the total mosquito population.

Define “addiction” and “physiological dependence”. How are these terms
similar and different? Discuss the challenges of breaking each.

Physiological dependence refers to the physical dependence that an
individual may have on a certain substance. Addiction, in a sense, is a
superset of physiological dependence, where the consumption of the
substance becomes the main goal of the individual, and they depend on it
metnally and physically.

FILL OUT THE CHALLENGES OF BREAKING EACH

Bona’s answer:

Addiction: compulsive use of drugs -> Tolerance/physiological dependence
may also be present. It can also be only mental.

Challenges to solve addiction: TALK ABOUT A CHALLENGE THAT IS MENTAL AND
NOT NECESSARILY PHYSICAL. Desire to use drug, physiological dependence,
financial stuggles, mental health, etc.

Physiological dependence: The actual physiological adaptation of body
(cnages in brain / body chemistry) to the drug.

Challenges to solve physiological dependence: Withdrawal, body has
trouble functioning without.

Describe briefly Edward Jenners' 1976 cowpox experiment. What technology
was developed as a result of this experiment?

Jenners took pus from a cow milkmaid with cowpox and inoculated an 8
year old boy with it. Then he injected smallpox into the kid, who did
not get smallpox lesions. The technology that was developed was
vaccines.

What were the three legs of the Triangular Trade? In what ways did the
institution of slavery and the triangle trade change sugar production
and consumption?

Dawdwad

What does insulin do? What is insulin resistance?

What does insulin do? Insulin helps blood sugar enter the body’s cells
so it can be used for energy.

What is insulin resistance? When body cells can’t process insulin, so
glucose cannot absorb the glucose, which builds up in the arteries.

What does it mean for an epidemiological study to be biased? What are
two types of systematic bias? Provide one example of each.

It is biased when it is designed in a way that provides an inaccurate
outcome. Even if it is executed properly, a biased study will provide
misleading results.

Selection bias:

Measurement bias:

Why is hypertension prevalence greater in developing countries? Discuss
one environmental cause.

People in developing countries are often more prone to hypertension
because it is caused by excessive sodium intake and people in such
countries generally have a lower income and buy cheaper food products,
which are often more processed and have higher added sodium content.

How is body mass index measured? What is one reason why body mass index
is often viewed as an invalid measure of obesity.

BMI (body mass index) is a measurement of body composition calculated
using a ratio of height to weight. It is often considered invalid in
diagnosing obesity because it does not take into account muscle mass,
bone density, and other factors which are not fatty tissue but may
contribute to weight.

What does an odds ratio measure? What is the odds ratio of olive
purchases? Soft drinks? How would you interpret each? Discuss dietary
trends present in the graphic and what their expected effect would be on
health outcomes.[]

The odds ratio of soft deink purchases

Previous Midterm Questions

Question 1 (4 points): Explain evolutionary mismatch and give an
example.

Evolutionary Mismatch is a concept in evolutionary biology that refers
to evolved traits that were once advantageous but became maladaptive due
to changes in the environment. This can take place in humans and animals
and is often attributed to rapid environmental change.

An example of evolutionary mismatch are inflammatory response and
unwanted excessive inflammatory response. Humans have developed these
responses to preserve each individuals health, but at the time this
happened there were certain infectious diseases that didn’t exist, such
as COVID-19. Now that it exists, it makes the body overreact and causes
excessive inflammation, which is detrimental to our health.

Question 2.1: Explain natural selection and give an example. (Talk about
selective pressure, proliferation of genes and reproductive fitness)

Natural selection is the process by which through which populations of
organisms transformed and differentiated themselves throughout millions
of years of evolution. Organisms are able to survive if they can feed
themselves and reproduce. Those individuals whose traits allow them to
thrive in their environment are more likely to live longer and produce
more offspring than individuals with less advantageous traits.

Since individuals inherit their parents traits (through their genes),
with time an increasing percentage of a species population has these
“advantageous” traits and a decreasing percentage has the less
advantageous traits.

An example of short term natural selection is the development of
pesticide resistant lice. In recent times humans have developed
pesticides that kill lice that are present in childrens heads. There
were some individuals that had genes that made them resistant to these
pesticides, but they were not the entirety of the population. When we
started treating the children with pesticides, the lice without
resistance dies, but the ones with resistance survived. After a while
most lice where resistant to pesticides, and that is the story of how
the lice population evolved.

Question 2.2 (4 points): What was the most important intervention in
reducing infectious outbreaks in cities? Can you give an example of a
disease tackled with epidemiology? ( Talk about water pump, zoning
epidemiology)

The growth in scientific knowledge between the 1800s and the 1900s
regarding the sources of disease provided people in cities with more
information about how to potentially solve the proliferation of
diseases.

Water supply and sewage removal: The fecal-oral way of transmission was
accepted and understood, and measures were taken to make sure that the
water supply never went into contact with feces. Sewer systems were
created/improved and water began to be boiled before being consumed.

Monitor community health status: Governments started monitoring the
health status of the population and using epidemiological tools to
narrow down the causes of disease and eliminate them.

Connection between poverty and disease: The connection was drawn between
poverty and the proliferation of diseases. As the quality of life in
cities increased (people had more personal space, access to more hygiene
resources, etc.), the rate of disease transmission naturally became
lower.

It is important to note that infectious diseases in urban areas
significantly decreased, even before the invention of antibiotics. Today
poverty is still the best single predictor of poor health.

An example of an issue that was tackled with epidemiology is 1854
cholera outbreak in London. Dr. John Snow, who is considered the father
of epidemiology, mapped out the cases of cholera that were occurring
around a certain point in Broadwick Street. He realized after plotting
the outbreaks on a map that they seemed to occur radially around a
central location. When he inspected that location, he realized that
there was a water pump there whose underground water supply was in
contact with disposed human feces, which he thought could be potentially
contaminating the water. He took the handle of the pump, forcing the
people to get it from elsewhere, and the outbreak subsided.

Question 3 (4 points): Why are some questions not suitable for a
randomized clinical trial? What other options do epidemiologists have?

-   There are cases where researchers are trying to compare the effects
    of an activity that is believed to be unhealthy (e.g., smoking). In
    these cases, it would violate ethical guidelines to give people
    cigarettes. Researches can resort to obervational studies where they
    look at the behaviours that people already have and what effect they
    cause in their bodies.

-   There are cases where a disease/negative outcome is so rare, that
    following a lot of peoples daily action until someone gets the
    disease is not reasonable. In these cases, researches look for
    information in the opposite way. They find people with the disease
    they want, and they try to look back and see if a certain behaviour
    or patter caused it.

-   Other things to note:

    -   If they want to identify correlations between a behavioural
        pattern and an outcome (e.g., people that drink tea sleep
        earlier).

    -   Sometimes the weight of pre-existing evidence is so great that a
        randomized trial is not warranted and regarded as unethical.

Question 4 (4 points): Describe three differences between Type 1 and
Type 2 Diabetes

1.  In Type 1 diabetes, your body is unable to produce insulin because
    your immune system destroys beta cells in the pancreas. In Type 2,
    your body still produces insulin, but not enough / inefficiently.

2.  Type 1 usually develops in childhood, and Type 2 is most commonly
    developed in adults over 45 (although can be discovered at any age
    for both)

3.  There are no known prevention methods for Type 1 diabetes, whereas
    preventative measures such as a healthy lifestyle can be taken
    against Type 2 diabetes.

Question 5 (4 points): Is obesity a choice? Why or why not? (Talk about
calorie in, calorie out, genetic and environmental factors)

Obesity is not necessarily a product of lifestyle choices. Although
weight loss can be determined by calories-in-calories-out (and
accomplished through a combination of exercise and diet), it is not very
useful to think of obesity in terms of the First Law of Thermodynamics.
Doing so ignores the genetic components and external factors that are
uncontrollable and influence obesity.

1.  Genetic causes, such as Prader Willi syndrome

2.  Medical causes, such as a stroke to the hypothalamus

3.  Environmental causes, such as socioeconomic class, drugs, breast
    feeding, endocrine disorders, social networks, night eating, gas
    prices

Module 1 - Group 1

Describe, briefly, how blood flows to, from, and through the heart.

The carbon dioxide-heavy blood that reaches the heart after its oxygen
has been depleted flows into the right atrium. From there it is let into
the right ventricle, that pumps it to the lungs, where it is oxygenated.
It returns to the heart and enters the left atriums. A valve then lets
the valve flow to the left ventricle, that pumps it once again, but
these time to all the rest of the body’s tissues. And the cycle repeats
itself.

[]

What are the main cardiovascular diseases and their effects on
individuals and society?

awda

What are the mechanisms by which chronic inflammation leads to
atherosclerosis?

dwad

What is the purpose and benefit of a pacemaker?

dd

Is CVD incidence/mortality better or worse than in the past?

dawd

Module 2 - Group 2

What molecules played an essential role in the beginning of life on
Earth?

Awdawd

Define and provide 2 examples of evolutionary mismatch.

awdawd

How do natural selection and differential reproductive success lead to
evolution?

dawd

What is the difference between micro- and macro-evolution?

dawd

How does antibiotic resistance develop and how is this related to the
concept of evolution?

awdawd

Module 3 - Group 3

What population processes are explained by the demographic transition,
and the epidemiological transition?

The demographic transition model describes how the population growth
rate changes as a country moves from a pre-industrial to industrialized
economy. The epidemiological transition model describes the rise and
fall of diseases as societies develop.

What are the stages of the epidemiological transition, including the
more recent extensions? How does this relate to cardiovascular disease?

Stage 1, or the stage of pestilence and famine, is the stage in which
infectious and parasitic diseases are the main cause of human deaths.
Stage 2, or the stage of receding pandemics, occurs when the pandemics
of stage 1 recede. Stage 3, or the stage of degenerative and
human-created diseases, occurs when chronic disorders associated with
aging begins to replace infectious diseases as the main cause of human
deaths. Cardiovascular diseases begin to be a more common cause of death
in stage 3. In Stage 4, or the stage of delayed degenerative diseases,
the major degenerative causes of death (e.g., heart disease) remain, but
life expectancy is extended through medical advances. A possible 5th
stage is known as the stage of reemergence of infectious and parasitic
diseases (from stage 1). Some medical analysts argue that the world is
entering a fifth stage given the reemergence of diseases thought to have
been eradicated, such as polio and monkeypox, as well as the emergence
of new diseases like Covid-19.

Do all countries and populations follow these theoretical transitions in
a linear, time-stamped way?

No, some countries and populations move through the stages of the
epidemiological transition model at different rates, depending on when
they undergo development. For example, countries that have
industrialized within the last 50 years, such as South Korea, have moved
through stages 3 and 4 much more quickly than countries that developed
earlier, such as the United States.

How has the demographic and epidemiological transition aided in
understanding developing countries' current public health and policy
goals?

Module 4 - Group 2

How does smoking cigarettes affect the brain?

Awd

How is tobacco an example of evolutionary mismatch?

Awd

What are 3 examples of policies implemented by countries to reduce the
health impacts of smoking on their populations?

Awdw

What were the main findings in the Swedish Twin study?

Awdwad

What is the difference between physiological dependence, addiction, and
tolerance?

awdwad

Module 5 - Group 3

What were the three legs of the Triangular Trade?

Awdwad

Briefly describe the three stages of acquisition of enslaved people, the
middle passage, and arrival in the New World.

Awdawd

In what ways did the institution of slavery and the triangle trade
change sugar production and consumption?

awdwa

Module 6 - Group 1

Provide an overview of the obesogenic environment model, energy balance
model, and the carbohydrate-insulin model.

Dwad

What are different genetic factors that can lead to obesity?

Dawd

What are different environmental factors that can lead to obesity?

Awdw

List 2 "obesity myths" and whether they are based in fact or have been
debunked.

dawd


Rev. 1

An artificial intelligence revolution is coming and unlike previous ones
I don't think this one will result in a net increase in jobs. This one
is different because humans are not being augmented, they are being
replaced. If we want to avoid a social crisis, we need to act quickly.

La idea es buena, esta relacionada con lo que queres presentar sobre tus
intereses. Falta un poco de trabajo en la ejecución. Podemos charlar de
como decirlo, pero me parece que la idea esta muy bien.

Rev. 2

An artificial intelligence revolution is coming and unlike previous
revolutions I don’t this one will result in jobs being created. It’s the
first one where humans are being replaced instead of augmented. We need
to understand the upcoming changes and act upon them if we want to avoid
a social crisis.

OR

It’s important to start studying the impact technology, especially
artificial intelligence, has on our society. We need to study the
ethical consequences of implementing this techonology and we need to re
educate the population to prevent millions of workers from being left
out of a job.

REV 3 (Guille y T)

An artificial intelligence revolution is underway. Just as the
industrial revolution replaced manual labor with steam engines, this one
will replace our choices with algorithms. We do not understand the
ramifications of these changes but must do so to harness them for the
common good.


Rev. 1

What I am really looking forward to is collaborating with fellow
students and professors, who are passionate about a topic, and
developing solutions to real world problems making use of our combined
knowledge in different areas.

Rev. 2

I want to develop new technologies and ideas, and take them to market so
I’d like to be part of Stanford Entrepreneurship Network. I’m interested
in understanding the impact technology has on society, so I’m looking
forward to taking “Ethics, Public Policy, and Technological Change” and
joining “CS + Social Good”.

REV 3 ( T y G)

I am looking forward to the combination of an outstanding academic
program in computer science with the support and opportunities offered
by the Stanford Entrepreneurship Network and its member organizations. I
am especially interested in Stanford’s computational biology and
bioinformatics curriculum.

(tenes aun 20 palabras: seria bueno senalar algun curriculum o
especializacion dentro de CS, club, programa, profesor, etc. especifico
de Stanford.

Rev. 4 FINAL

I am looking forward to the combination of an outstanding academic
program in computer science with the support and opportunities offered
by the Stanford Entrepreneurship Network and its member organizations. I
also want to become involved with CS + Social Good organization and
develop projects for nonprofits through its Studio program.


Dear Neeyanth,

I am not the smoothest with words, so I will keep it short and simple. I
am really glad I got to spend time with you this semester. It was very
fun to organize the competition together (even if development was
painful at times) and I’m happy that we are now friends.

As I was thinking of a goodbye gift I remembered that you said that you
were “a great coder but not a software engineer”. You are an amazing
engineer and one of the best people (friend and work-wise) that I’ve had
the pleasure of building something with. I wanted to give you something
that would be useful now and that you could also come back to in the
future. After scouring the internet I found this book, filled with tips
and techniques on how to create amazing systems, which I hope helps you
at JS and beyond 🚀.

Hope you have an amazing senior summer!

Massive hugs 🤗,

Iñaki

P.S.: this is gonna be you after you read the book

[]


For CS252R I worked on the code for the first assignment, the
transformers’ presentation and the final project. The final project was
continued as part of CS91R and resulted in the ICLR GEM publication.

CS252R First Assignment (Bottom Up Synthesis)

Summary: I wrote a bottom up synthesis in TypeScript powered by a small
scheme interpreter (also in TS) that was able to solve synthesis
problems by taking in a DSL and a set of examples as input. The DSL was
not fixed and the GitHub repository shows examples with arithmetic and a
string manipulation DSL. It uses expression caching for faster
interpretation of ASTs, and is able to use native TS implementations of
the DSL for the same purpose, but can also fallback on the interpreter
to obtain a value for the entire expression from scratch when the native
TS implementation is not available for a node in the AST.

Link to github repository:
https://github.com/inakineitor/fall-2023-cs252r/tree/main/pset-1

When I submitted, I suggested a couple of ideas for improvement:

-   Using the cached types from previous interpretations to perform more
    aggressive narrowing by type (to avoid trying invalid expressions).
    This would not work in recursive cases, but this BUS cannot handle
    recursive cases without using the interpreter, so in the
    non-recursive mode, this would work and provide significant speed
    improvements.

-   Parallelizing each expression size loop by batching all the
    expressions to be round and distributing their execution amongst
    multiple threads. These would yield at the end and the results
    captured by the main thread. Most of the program time is spent on
    expression execution, so this would also provide significant speed
    improvements.

-   Implementing the machine learning portion of BUSLE.

-   Adding another search guiding factor, like the cost to run each
    function.

-   Caching of expression results under examples

For the assignment, Tyler provided the following feedback:

-   The synthesizeProgram function adheres to bottom-up enumerative
    synthesis and uses a weight-based strategy for terms.

-   Uses the seenEvaluations set for observation equivalence, reducing
    redundant computations.

-   Accepts availableOperations and extraPrimitives as parameters,
    offering some DSL-agnosticism; however, weight computation is
    tightly coupled within the function. This integration could
    potentially limit the function's adaptability to different DSLs if
    those DSLs require different weight computation methods, suggesting
    room for modularization to achieve full DSL-agnosticism.

-   Lengthy and complex structure suggests a need for refactoring,
    particularly for the loop generating argument tuples and evaluating
    expressions.

-   Leaves placeholders for future improvements like caching and
    enhanced error handling to improve efficiency and robustness.

-   Makes indiscriminate use of console.log for debugging, indicating a
    need for a more formal logging mechanism or varying verbosity
    levels.

CS252R Presentation (Attention Is All You Need)

Summary: I presented on the transformers paper Attention Is All You
Need, explaining their inner workings in an intuitive way and providing
examples of what they could be used for.

Presentation link:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1i9uLQ_D9Ufk9IuJMI7pWQyRKuUNLuVSMGV6g9tGI-B4/edit?usp=sharing

CS91R Paper (Multi-Objective Generative AI for Designing Novel Brain-Targeting Small Molecules - ICLR GEM 2024)

Summary: In our study, we focus on identifying small molecule drug
candidates for central nervous system (CNS) diseases that currently lack
effective treatments. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) poses a significant
challenge in delivering drugs to the CNS, hindering both diagnosis and
treatment. Computational methods that generate BBB-permeable lead
compounds in silico could be valuable tools in the CNS drug design
process. However, in practical applications, BBB penetration alone is
not sufficient; molecules must also perform a desired function, such as
binding to a specific target or receptor in the brain, while being safe
and non-toxic for human use.

To address these challenges, we employed multi-objective generative AI
to synthesize drug-like, BBB-permeable small molecules with high
predicted binding affinity to a disease-relevant CNS target. We
specifically focused on designing molecules with predicted bioactivity
against dopamine receptor D2, which is the primary target for most
clinically effective antipsychotic drugs. After training several graph
neural network-based property predictors, we adapted SyntheMol (Swanson
et al., 2024), a recently developed Monte Carlo Tree Search-based
algorithm originally designed for antibiotic discovery, to perform a
multi-objective guided traversal over an easily synthesizable molecular
space.

As a result, we designed a library of 26,581 novel and diverse small
molecules containing hits with high predicted BBB permeability,
favorable predicted safety and toxicity profiles, and the potential for
straightforward synthesis and experimental validation in the wet lab. We
also validated top-scoring molecules using molecular docking simulation
against the D2 receptor, demonstrating predicted binding affinity
comparable to risperidone, a clinically prescribed D2-targeting
antipsychotic. We hope that our SyntheMol-based computational approach
will enable the discovery of novel neurotherapeutics for currently
intractable CNS disorders in the future.

Conference funding proposal link:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/145axx0tQuakK1I6ftDy2G24t18Tw6L8LvHiWU6hMOrM/edit?usp=sharing

Conference report link:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xdtudvtkxWCzudJVf7ynB7Rkp_KNfiZaY7ZFMMZsVi0/edit

Arxiv link to paper: https://www.arxiv.org/abs/2407.00004


Rev. 1

One of my extracurricular activities this year, consisted of being a
developer and project manager in a startup called Reindi. With a few
friends we had been working on storing documents in the blockchain, when
a José contacted us through Y Combinator's Startup School.

He had seven children, two of whom had disabilities. The process for him
to get reimbursements from the government and from his healthcare
provider was long, tedious and tiring. His idea was to come up with a
technological solution to his problem, which would help not only him,
but a whole lot of other people in similar situations.

I was moved by his story and decided to assemble a team to try and
tackle this issue. So for the last 7 months we've been hard at work
trying to bring this solution to life.

Rev. 2

One of my extracurricular activities this year, consisted of being a
developer and project manager at a startup called Reindi.

We had been working on a document storage solution using blockchain with
a couple of friends, when we were contacted by José. He had seven
children, two of whom had disabilities. He had problems trying to get
reimbursements for his children's treatment.

I was moved by his story and decided to assemble a team to try and
tackle this issue. So for the last 7 months we've been hard at work
trying to bring this solution to life. We’ve built a platform that
allows health professionals to send treatment information directly and
securely to the healthcare provider, automatizing the reimbursements.
We’ve been holding meetings with every stakeholder, and I’m currently in
talks with the government, so that Reindi can become an official partner
in the Federal Health Information Bus.

Rev. 3

I’ve been a developer at project manager at a startup called Reindi. I
was contacted by José while working with a few friends on a document
storage solution using a new technology called blockchain. He had seven
children, two of whom had disabilities, and he had problems trying to
get reimbursements for his children's treatment.

I was moved by his story and decided to assemble a team to try and
tackle this issue. So for the last 7 months we've been hard at work
trying to bring this solution to life. We’ve built a platform that
allows health professionals to send treatment information directly and
securely to the healthcare provider, automatizing the reimbursements.
We’ve been holding meetings with private and public healthcare
providers, policymakers, and I’m currently in talks with technological
government division, so that Reindi can become an official partner in
the Federal Health Information Bus. We’re currently looking for funding
to continue this development.

Rev. 4 (FINAL) 145 words

I work as a developer and project manager for a startup called Reindi.
Last January, the CEO reached out to me because of my familiarity with a
technology called “blockchain”. The startup is a response to his
personal predicament; two of his children are disabled and it has been
difficult for him to navigate the network of healthcare insurers, manage
health records, and receive reimbursements for treatment. I was touched
by his story and decided to join his effort.

Together we outlined a blockchain-based document storage solution and I
recruited a team to work on the project. We have since been working hard
to bring this solution to life. We have built a platform that allows
doctors to send treatment information directly and securely to clinics
and to streamline reimbursements and are in talks to become a partner of
the national Health Information Bus initiative.

Princeton Version - 0-250 words (~150 words recommended)

I work as a developer and project manager for a startup called Reindi.
Last January, the CEO reached out to me because of my familiarity with a
technology called “blockchain”. The startup is a response to his
personal predicament; two of his children are disabled and it has been
difficult for him to navigate the network of healthcare insurers, manage
health records, and receive reimbursements for treatment. I was touched
by his story and decided to join his effort.

Together we outlined a blockchain-based document storage solution and I
recruited a team to work on the project. We have since been working hard
to bring this solution to life. We have built a platform that allows
doctors to send treatment information directly and securely to insurers
and the government, automating the reimbursement process.

We have held meetings with private and public healthcare providers,
insurers, policymakers and the Ministry of Health to reach a consensus
about digital document management for patients with disabilities. I’m
currently in talks with DNSIS, the governmental institution in charge of
digitizing the country’s health infrastructure, for Reindi to become a
partner of the new national Health Information Bus, an information
highway for patient records.


If you are interested in pursuing a B.S.E. (Bachelor of Science in
Engineering) degree, please write a 300-500 word essay describing why
you are interested in studying engineering, any experiences in or
exposure to engineering you have had, and how you think the programs in
engineering offered at Princeton suit your particular interests.

While preparing for the Informatic Olympiads in my junior year of
highschool I discovered an algorithm lecture series online. I binge
watched them until I got stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover
differences between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across an
article on its application to the analysis of DNA sequences of
individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the application
of this method across disciplines and challenged myself to do the same
with the algorithms I was learning. One of the topics that I was
struggling most with was balancing complicated chemical equations. I
wrote a program that applied classic computer science to the balancing
problem. I started using it in class and my friends found it very
useful. Since that day, I step back at every opportunity and ask myself
how what I am studying connects to what I know about computer science
and how potential connections may change my understanding of the
problem.

In the past few years I have created several programs for fun and
profit, but its was through the development of a navigation app for the
blind community and a health reimbursement platform for people with
disabilities that I developed a passion for applying computer science to
health for the benefit of society.

I want to learn about the latest advancements in the field of
computational biology. The work carried out by the CS department and by
Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics will be wonderful
opportunities for me to familiarize myself with new developments in the
area.

I do not only want to study computational biology, I hope to play a part
in advancing it. I want to work alongside Barbara Engelhardt, whose work
on protein prediction I believe will impact future medical research, and
Mona Singh, who works on the application of machine learning algorithms
to massive biological datasets.

I am also interested in understanding the larger picture. I am currently
researching the policy changes required for people with disabilities to
be able to submit digitally signed documents to the government through
the internet. I know how big of a role policy has on the adoption of new
technologies and I want to take part of the conjoined program between
the CS department and Woodrow Wilson School of Public & International
Affairs to be able to understand how these two areas interact.

I would like to apply what I learn at Princeton to become an
entrepreneur focused on socially-minded work and believe Keller Center’s
eLab Incubator will jumpstart my efforts.

In addition to the essay you have written for the Common Application,
please write an essay of about 500 words (no more than 650 words and no
fewer than 250 words). Using one of the themes below as a starting
point, write about a person, event, or experience that helped you define
one of your values or in some way changed how you approach the world.
Please do not repeat, in full or in part, the essay you wrote for the
Common Application.

1.  Tell us about a person who has influenced you in a significant way.

My first chemistry teacher, Juan, was one of the most influential people
in my life. He saw potential in me at a time I was not very interested
in science. A week after the first class of the year, he invited me to
an after-class science club, I decided to give it a try.

The club brought together students interested in competing in the Junior
Science Olympiads. The first day I attended, I was surprised by the
members’ commitment and the level of complexity of the topics Juan
explained. He made sure that I was able to keep up with the workload. He
lent me a pile of books so that I could catch up on weekends. He was
different from my other teachers. Not only did he make sure we
understood each topic thoroughly, but he also cared for us on a personal
level.

I grew close to him and continued attending the club, becoming more and
more interested in science. With his mentorship I won round after round
of competitions until I qualified for the International Junior Science
Olympiad. After that I had to train away from my home town with the
national team and dedicated trainers, so we sadly lost touch.

We were all away from home, and felt overwhelmed by the intensity of our
training and the responsibility of having to represent our country and
we became very close. The need to cope made us develop a strong team
identity and the rigor of the training made us all develop endurance and
persistence.

After a few months of this, we traveled to the Netherlands to compete
and I came back with a bronze medal. The first person I wanted to tell
was Juan, but I soon got the news that he had died of a heart attack. I
was devastated. I would never be able to thank him for everything he
did. When the school put up a plaque in his name, I cried. That piece of
metal would never be able to reflect the huge impact he had on me.

My relationship with Juan was one of the most meaningful of my life. I
will always be grateful for the role he played in developing my
character and my passion for science. It was in his honour that I
restarted the science club by teaching physics, to provide other
students the same opportunity he had given me.

Please briefly elaborate on one of your extracurricular activities or
work experiences that was particularly meaningful to you. (About 150
words)

I work as a developer and project manager for a startup called Reindi.
Last July, the CEO reached out to me because of my familiarity with a
technology called “blockchain”. The startup is a response to his
personal predicament; two of his children are disabled and it has been
difficult for him to navigate the network of healthcare insurers, manage
health records, and receive reimbursements for treatment. I was touched
by his story and decided to join his effort.

Together we outlined a blockchain-based document storage solution and I
recruited a team to work on the project. We have since been working hard
to bring this solution to life. We have built a platform that allows
doctors to send treatment information directly and securely to clinics
and to streamline reimbursements, and are in talks to become a partner
of the national Health Information Bus initiative.

Please tell us how you have spent the last two summers (or vacations
between school years), including any jobs you have held. (About 150
words)

I spent a good part of the past two summers developing apps for both fun
and profit.

In 2018 I traveled to the Netherlands to represent Argentina in the
International Junior Science Olympiad and brought back a bronze medal. I
was also awarded a scholarship to study in Israel and spent three weeks
learning about Jewish culture and history, and visiting sites of
interest in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Masada.

In 2019, on a field-research scholarship, I joined a team studying the
relationship between light intensity and vegetation development in
Panama. When I returned home I focused on developing Couponara, a web
platform for small and medium retailers to manage commercial promotions
and customer relationships.


Your agent:

0: 0.99 0 2 0 2

1: 0.75 0 2 0 2

2: 0.5 1 4 1 4

3: 0.25 2 3 2 3

4: 0.0 3 3 3 3

Explanation for your agent:

Reasoning for agent:

1.  Other students have had the highest exposure to the Tit for tat,
    Grim trigger, Always defect, and Punisher strategies, because of the
    book.

2.  Other students have also had exposure to the game The Evolution of
    Trust because it was recommended in the book.

3.  I assume that most students’ goal is to be on the top of the
    leaderboard, which would lead them to pick more aggressive
    strategies, since being in the middle of the leaderboard is not very
    rewarding.

4.  Other students are unlikely to pick the “always defect” strategy
    because they want to be on the top of the leaderboard, and always
    defecting leaves a lot of money on the table, and is likely to have
    middle-of-the-pack or poor performance against many strategies.

5.  Following the same thought process, I don’t think many students will
    pick a grim trigger strategy strategy, since when we are talking
    about 100 rounds, it could also leave a lot of money on the table,
    since many strategies will likely attempt a defect at least once.

6.  The reason for thinking that most people will try to defect at least
    once is because always cooperating will likely lead to
    middle-of-the-pack performance when compared to more aggressive
    strategies.

7.  With regards to a practical implementation of what state to choose,
    I must make sure that all states are reachable, because I would be
    wasting states and losing expressivity.

8.  Since a game in the tournament has a 100 rounds, we can think of it
    as a game that has 1/100 change of ending at any given round, and
    thus the discount factor is 99/100.

While the

Because of noise, strategies that trigger a very high likelihood of
defection, like the grim trigger, are likely to not win, since even if
both players cooperate, the expected number of rounds until there is
noise and the defection gets triggered is 20, which is considerably
lower than the total 100 rounds. That means that the system needs to be
forgiving but not too forgiving so as to let it be taken over by a
greedy system.

That is why the automata works on a system of trust, biased towards in
an attempt to be altruistic. The state 0, where it starts, is the most
trustworthy, and defection coming from the other player lowers its trust
while cooperation from the other player increases its trust. The reason
for the bias towards trusting again is to avoid getting stuck in a
defection loop. The automata cooperates while it is in a trustworthy
state and defects otherwise.


Full Name / Pseudonym

Iñaki Arango

Age

20

Email

arangoinaki@gmail.com

Phone Number

+1 (281) 919-8581

School (if applicable)

Rice University (freshman year) and Harvard (transferring in the fall)

Graduation Year (if applicable)

2025

Degree (if applicable)

B.S. in Computer Science and Minor in Math

Location

Houston, Texas, United States

What in crypto most excites you? (250 words or less)

I believe crypto has huge potential as a day-to-day tool, beyond a mere
store of value. Coming from Argentina, where finances are made
notoriously hard by a government that imposes complicated and heavy
restrictions on the ownership and movement of foreign currency, I see
decentralized currency systems as a way to do business with the rest of
the world.

I’m interested in any advancement that accelerates the rate of mass
adoption of blockchain and cryptocurrencies. In lieu of that, I find the
following quite interesting:

-   Technologies that enable cheaper transaction fees and
    interoperability between chains (e.g., Atomic Swaps, Polkadot).

-   Technologies that perform arbitrage between chains and investment
    opportunities, stabilizing the markets, like Yearn or NALA
    (crosschain alternative to Yearn).

-   Innovations in UX. Improvements in speed, ease of use, and
    understanding for end-users are critical for mass adoption. The more
    we move away from CLIs and towards clean and sleek mobile and web
    apps, the more people will feel comfortable adopting platforms that
    leverage the technology.

-   Improvements in the approach to teaching about crypto (e.g.,
    CriptoLab). It is important for a basic understanding of crypto to
    be part of common knowledge to remove the stigma that crypto is
    “scary” or for a very technical few. Better education would also
    help prevent people from falling for scams that threaten their
    livelihoods and that give a bad reputation to the crypto community
    and the technology as a whole.

What are some projects you've built and what are you working on now?
(250 words or less)

I’ve built three projects related to crypto:

-   Reindi (2019-Present): App for managing health insurance
    documentation and reimbursements through smart contracts that would
    make it impossible to fake information. After finishing a working
    prototype we presented it to leaders of 3 of the largest private
    health insurance firms in Argentina (Osde, Omint & Swiss Medical),
    who liked the idea but said that blockchain technology was not there
    yet, and they would prefer the same system but using traditional Web
    2 technologies.

-   Docsit (2019-2020): Series of smart contracts, backend code and
    client libraries that made it easy to upload, retrieve and visualize
    documents using the Ethereum blockchain and IPFS. The system worked
    similarly to Protocol Labs’ new project: web3.storage.

-   IPFS Multiplexer (2019): While building Reindi I was trying to
    improve the performance of information retrieval from IPFS and
    developed a frontend JS library that connected to multiple IPFS
    nodes at once and chose the best one when requesting documents.

Currently working on Recyco (2020-Present): An online platform that aims
to increase the participation of consumers and big consumer goods
businesses in the recyclables’ circular economy. Consumers are
incentivized through “Recycoins” to recycle. Businesses and governments
(which are the trash collectors in Argentina) leverage the Recyco
Platform to track recyclable collection efforts as well as to manage
their recyclable material assets. Currently in talks with Unilever and
Nestle, among others, to perform a pilot in Argentina.

What would you most like to take advantage of with the Fellowship? (100
words or less)

I mostly self-teach from online sources, but I notice that a lack of
personal connections and exposure to the crypto community makes some
concepts harder to understand or to come across. To continue growing, I
would love to meet talented and driven individuals that are looking for
ways to improve crypto and its adoption. The Paradigm Fellowship would
be an incredible opportunity to do so.

I also look forward to the Mentorship portion since I want to learn more
about how to incorporate crypto technology gradually into applications
that are not fully decentralized yet, and how the UX is affected.

Previous Work (Please provide any relevant links to GitHub, portfolio,
blog, etc.)

GitHub: https://github.com/inakineitor

CV:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GAXlX-qtS5lEwUi0doTfbRePbOTVUHt6/view

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/inaki-arango/

Personal Links (Twitter, website, video pitch of an idea you're working
on, etc. – anything that would help us get to know you better)

https://drive.google.com/file/d/16HPrq5A2UoYYLUnjMmzcxdkfhmeIFv3M/view
(please keep private since this is unreleased)

How did you hear about the Paradigm Fellowship?

A friend from high school with whom I have worked before is also
applying and recommended I apply.

Are there any other individuals you would recommend for the Paradigm
Fellowship?

Lisandro Acuña.


Example 1 (Sender for the first SRE)

-   What?

  I was a sender for the first SRE on Counting Sort and worked with
  James. Instead of going straight into algoirthm specifics and
  implementation details, I started by explaining the underlying logic
  behind counting sort: the existence of a countable universe guaranteed
  to contain all keys. After we were both at the same level of
  understanding, we continued on to writing the full algorithm that
  worked with key-value pair and the correctness and runtime proofs.

-   So what?

  Making sure that we both had reached similar levels of understanding
  of the hardest core parts of the algorithm made the construction of
  the algorithms and the proofs fully collaborative instead of there
  just being a one-way flow of information from me to him.

  I would just give nudges to improve implementation or suggest he
  consider certain cases, but didn’t have tell him what the algorithm
  was on my sheet.

-   Now what?

  This meant he was actively thinking about how the core concepts he
  already understood could be applied to creating an algorithm that fit
  the prompt. When you create an algorithm “by yourself”, you remember
  and understand it way better since you came up with it.

  Now I know that the best way of explaining a new topic to someone is
  to give them the knowledge building blocks so that they can come up
  with the solutions and conclusions by themselves. This is especially
  important when the goal is to reach deep understanding and not
  memorization.

Example 2 (Got help student in House DHall and learnt a valuable lesson)

-   What?

  The day of the PSet 1, a group of students got together in the Adams
  dining hall at night to work on the PSet. I initially went there to
  ask about potential performance bugs in Radix Sort because my
  implementation was running slower than expected. I had been trying to
  resolve the issue for the past couple of hours hours, but five minutes
  after getting there someone gave an idea that let me solve it. I then
  stayed there for the next 2 hours helping the other people that were
  stuck at different stages of the PSet.

-   So what?

  I had never got help on coding problems before. Growing up I self
  taught coding, which meant that I only had myself and the internet to
  solve any solutions I had. Many simple issues took hours to solve
  because I had to think about it by myself and there usually wasn’t
  anyone available to help.

  When I came to college, I got used to doing CS PSets by myself. This
  was the first time I had gone to someone else for help. Out of the
  hundred lines of sorting and graphing code, there was a mistake in
  just one line that was ruining everything. After explaining that the
  RadixSort worked fine, just slow, someone suggested I check if I was
  running CountingSort with the base b instead of U, and that fixed it.

  (Went a bit over the world limit to explain background. Wrote less on
  the next question to compensate :) )

-   Now what?

  I learned the valuable lesson that collaboration always yields better
  work. I’ve become friends outside of class with some of the people I
  met that day. I started joining groups for every single PSet, and now
  try to find people around campus (office hours, latino club, dining
  hall, etc.) that need help with CS PSets.

Example 3 (Helped student during after Office Hours had ended)

-   What?

  I went to Zach’s office hours to understand how I could improve my
  proofreading skills and while there, heard that someone was struggling
  with understanding the concepts for a late PSet. When the office hours
  where about to end he seemed quite stressed that he would not be able
  to understand everything until the next OHs, and he would have to take
  more late days.

-   So what?

  I stayed with him after office hours ended for another hour explaining
  the core concepts of BSTs and the rotate algorithm. I had made notes
  and figures for the concepts that I found hard, and it turned out that
  he found it super useful since he was struggling with similar topics.
  With the notes I gave him a mini lecture on BSTs in the SEC.

-   Now what?

  Learned something new about how to better explain new topics. I
  realized that it is often the case that learners struggle with the
  similar topics when trying to learn a subject, so sharing any insight
  that one figured out while trying to understand a topic can be very
  useful for the other person. At the end I gave him my phone number and
  then we continued the conversation over text.


Example 1 (Receiver for second SRE)

-   What?

  I was a receiver in the second SRE. I think my partner was really good
  at synthesizing and going from abstract to concrete. This let me first
  understand the general idea of what we were doing (like what are the
  cases we should deal with), and from there we went on to the specifics
  of the algorithm and the proof-writing.

-   So what?

  Once we got to the proof however, I became quite confused about what
  we had to prove and in what order. She was explaining different key
  areas of the proof but I didn’t understand how all the fitted
  together. We overcame this by stoping and talking first about the
  general structure the proof should take in this case: Algorithm,
  Runtime Proof.

-   Now what?

  I think one improvement we could make in the future is talking about
  the general expectations of the exercise first, and then start talking
  about the algorithm/math content itself. Having structure particularly
  helps me understand what we are talking about and have a better sense
  of whether the explanation is going.

Example 2 (Sender for third SRE)

-   What?

  I was a sender for the third SRE. We first went on the big level
  thinking of what we were doing with the BFS-CC algorithm, and then the
  specifics of the BFS-Label algorithm. As we were on the same page from
  BFS-CC with what we wanted to do within the label subroutine, it was
  relatively simple to write out.

-   So what?

  My partner did really well, and he indeed improved the my
  understanding of the concepts. He continuously question the runtime of
  the algorithm, which made me argue about the runtime in an intuitive
  fashion, so that it could be explained in the air without math. That
  is how I came to the conclusion that the runtime is O(n + m + n) =
  O(n + m) because you are checking every node once, and then an
  instance of BFS runs through a single node only once.

-   Now what?

  I had two important learnings that day:

-   I think that when you are trying to get a big picture understanding
    of how many algorithms are working together, it is easier to start
    by the simplest one first, so that one can quickly begin to
    understand parts of the problem.

-   Even if you initially are the one explaining a topic, that does not
    mean that you are not learning or improving your understanding
    through it. By the end I had intuition for the runtime that I did
    not have originally

Example 3 (Helped a friend visualize the magic maze board game)

-   What?

  In PSet 4, a friend was having trouble understanding how to write a
  reduction that would transform the knowledge that we had developed in
  problems 3a and 3b into a reduction for 3c that was able to solve the
  MagicMazeProblem. I tried different alternative ways of explaining
  until I found one that struck the match.

-   So what?

  I explained to him that we could represent each player’s move though a
  different graph, that had edge according to what the rules of the game
  stated. One could only move in straight lines, one could only move in
  diagonals, and one could only move 2 steps in one axis and 1 step in
  the other. I then drew a simple version of each of the three graphs
  and layered them one on top of each other, with paths going down from
  one layer to the next.

-   Now what?

  I wanted to give him all the tools to come up with his own solution
  without knowing the final answer, because that is when one learns
  most. After going through a couple different explanations, it was
  seeing the movements of the players and the graph drawn out on paper
  the thing that made it all click for him. I learned from this that
  visualizations are way more quickly understood than prose or
  pseudocode explanations, and they allow for a deeper understanding.
  After seeing the graphs he was able to come up with the full reduction
  on his own.


For applicants to The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied
Science, please tell us what from your current and past experiences
(either academic or personal) attracts you specifically to the field or
fields of study that you noted in the Member Questions section.

Rev. 1

-   Get essay Short Essay 1 about mixing disciplines from Stanford
    folder.

-   Habría que hacer algún cambio o se puede poner así directo, porque
    justo hablar de computer science y financial engineering?


What would be your ideal role upon graduation? Fellows generally go on
to become VCs, founders, or operators, and we helped many of them to
land their dream jobs

awdaw

Why did you apply to become a Pear Fellow? (Max 300 words)

dawdaw

What are you most excited to learn during the Pear Fellowship Program?
(Max 300 words)

dawdaw

If selected for the Pear Fellowship, how much time do you think you can
commit per week and why? We'd love to get a sense of your
extracurricular commitments

dawdaw

What communities on campus are you a part of (or plan to be a part of)
and what is your level of involvement?

dawdawd

Part of being a Pear fellow is about community building. What
event/programming would you recommend to help founders in your
ecosystem? (Max 300 words)

dawdawd

Please submit a video of you answering the following question - Which
pre-seed or seed startup are you most excited about and why? Max 3
minutes. Please submit via an unlisted Youtube video link or Google
drive link (ensure Pear has access to the video)

dawdawd


Iñaki Arango

AB/SM Concurrent Master’s Program in Computer Science

Three years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: travel to the U.S.,
learn as much as we can, connect with brilliant and innovative thinkers,
develop ourselves professionally, then return to Argentina to help our
country attain sustainable growth.

My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice University.
However, I came to realize that the culture at Rice was not the best fit
for me. To achieve my goals, I sought an atmosphere of discovery with
students passionate about technological change who are anxious to
materialize their innovations through research, startups, and
applications in industry. I was excited to discover such an environment
at Harvard so, after completing freshman year, I transferred.

After my transfer, I was able to connect with classmates who shared my
passion for innovation and my commitment to using technology as a means
to improve living conditions in Latin America. For the first time, I met
other like-minded founders who were developing startups to elevate the
socioeconomic status of their home communities and make better
opportunities available. Having found people that knew first-hand what
life is like in Latin America and who share my ideals, I became more
involved in the community than ever.

Naturally, I wanted more people at Harvard to join this group of forward
thinkers dedicated to making positive change in Latin America, and
decided that a good start was helping my fellow Hispanic classmates to
pursue STEM related-fields. I became president of the Harvard SEAS
Chapter of the Society of Professional Hispanic Engineers and doubled
down on club outreach efforts, drawing attention to successful Latin
entrepreneurs and connecting companies with promising Hispanic engineers
graduating Harvard.

In pushing others to pursue science, I came to realize myself that there
was a vast world of advanced knowledge that I was not tapping into, and
that had practical applications to the types of problems I want to
solve. My cultural, academic, and professional background puts me in the
perfect position to use the Concurrent Master’s as an opportunity to
explore the field of Computer Science and apply my learnings back home.

When I say I am from Argentina, many assume I must love soccer, asados
and alfajores, and instinctively greet everyone with a hug. Indeed, I
do, but what many probably don’t know is that since I was thirteen I
have known the exchange rate between pesos and dollars because in
Argentina your savings consistently lose value due to chronic inflation.
Amid such instability, the best-laid plans can easily come undone, even
if you work hard. This very situation, however, also makes us appreciate
the urgency of addressing problems and makes us experts at thinking
outside the box to find cheaper, and more practical solutions so that
everyone can benefit from them.

I look forward to contributing this perspective as I advance my
knowledge and develop innovative ideas with my new peers in graduate
classes. I am eager to learn from their experiences and contribute to
their research efforts.


Plan de Marketing de Glös

Materia: Marketing

División: 5º TIC “A”

Grupo: Glös

Integrantes: Lautaro Hernando, Milena Rosman, Federico Sonkin, Guido
Ungar e Iñaki Arango

Docente: Clara Rujinsky

 

Índice

Introducción al trabajo 2

  Objetivos 2

  Alcance 2

Desarrollo 4

  Introducción al Proyecto 4

  Comportamiento del Consumidor 4

  Investigación de Mercado 4

  Mercado Objetivo y Posicionamiento 4

  Análisis Estratégico 4

  Descripción de Producto o Servicio 4

  Elevator Pitch 4

  Estrategia de Precio 4

  Estrategia de Distribución 4

  Estrategia de Comunicación 4

  Marca 4

  Publicidad 4

  Merchandising 5

  Promociones 5

  Relaciones Públicas 5

  Marketing Directo 5

  Eventos y Experiencias 5

  Plan de Medios 5

  Manifesto de la Marca 5

Conclusiones 6

Anexos 6

  Bibliografía consultada 6

  Referencias 6

 

Introducción al trabajo

Objetivos

Esperamos a partir de este trabajo poder entender mejor qué funciones de
nuestro software resultarán de mayor utilidad para el mercado al que
estamos apuntando, y cuáles se utilizarán más. Esto permitirá enfocar
nuestros esfuerzos de desarrollo de software, por lo menos en una
primera instancia, específicamente en esta funcionalidad. Mejorando
tanto el MVP como el producto final.

Alcance

Por los objetivos que nos definimos, el proceso de investigación se
adhiere más a una investigación descriptiva ya que buscamos describir el
potencial de cada una de las funciones del software que estamos
desarrollando y de las actitudes de los consumidores que nos conciernen
por su relación con la funcionalidad ofrecida (ej: gente con bebés,
individuos con visión reducida, etc.).

Por nuestra ubicación, y por ser el lugar donde primero podremos
distribuir la aplicación de forma eficiente y eficaz, concentramos
nuestros esfuerzos de investigación en la Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos
Aires y sus alrededores, pero nos gustaría que el funcionamiento de la
app se expandiese a toda la Argentina, y de ser posible, al mundo,
porque hay usuarios posibles que cumplen con las características en
todos los países.

Resumen ejecutivo

Glös es una aplicación diseñada para mejorar la experiencia de
navegación de todos, pero concentrándose en las personas con algún tipo
de discapacidad. Usa algoritmos de creación propia para calcular las
rutas de navegación en base a las necesidades del usuario balanceando la
duración, la distancia, la iluminación (seguridad) y la cantidad de
obstáculos.

Se planea distribuir la aplicación de forma gratuita por las plataformas
comunes. Los costos de mantenimientos son sumamente bajos. La
competencia es casi nula, con muy pocos competidores con funcionalidad
levemente similar.

Con respecto a la publicidad, se establecerán tres campañas, una para
concientizar sobre el problema que sufren las personas con discapacidad
en la vía pública, para incentivar el reporte de obstáculos comunitario,
y para incentivar el uso de la funcionalidad de navegación. También
planeamos organizar eventos donde además de aportar a nuestras campañas
publicitarias, se incentive la comunicación y socialización entre las
personas que reportan.

Desarrollo

Introducción al Proyecto

Glös es una plataforma virtual para dispositivos móviles que le facilita
al usuario la circulación por la vía pública. A partir de la información
sobre el estado de las veredas, se eligen los caminos más cortos, en
mejor estado o mejor iluminados. La fuente de esta información es el
crowdsourcing. Tanto los navegantes como personas que quieran aportar a
mejorar el sistema pueden reportar problemas y el estado en el que se
encuentran la veredas.

La necesidad es poder advertir el mal estado de las veredas para que los
ciudadanos pueden circular por la vía pública tranquilamente.

Específicamente para la población ciega, es importante que puedan
transitar de forma segura. Para la gente que tenga que arrastrar cosas,
sirve la app porque recomienda caminos sin pozos/obstrucciones, por lo
que ayuda.

Apuntando a la gente que camina de noche, la app cumple la función de
proveer un camino corto y seguro (iluminado) entre un punto y otro.

Comportamiento del Consumidor

Reconocimiento de la necesidad

Hay tres mercados a los que apuntamos, por lo que la parte de
reconocimiento se divide en tres.

La gente con visión reducida, luego de caminar por la calle y
encontrarse con veredas rotas, pozos, u objetos colgante que los agarran
desprevenidos y los golpean, se dan cuenta de que tienen que encontrar
una solución al problema.

La gente que suele tener que transportar cosas con ruedas por la calle,
como papás de un bebé recién nacido, se dan cuenta después de unos días
de arrastrar un carrito por veredas rotas que dañan las ruedas y que
evitan que el bebé tenga un paseo placentero, que tienen que encontrar
una solución.

Personas que quieren salir a pasear de noche, o tienen que volver a la
casa de noche, se dan cuenta de que es inseguro y tienen que encontrar
alguna manera de poder determinar de antemano, qué camino va a ser
seguro (iluminado), y relativamente corto, entre el punto en el que
están y dónde quieren ir.

Búsqueda de información

En la parte de búsqueda de información, se encontrará nuestra app sola
en algunas categoría mientras que en otras se encontrará acompañada por
otras apps.

Por ejemplo, aplicaciones de navegación para ciegos, se verá acompañada
de otras como Lazarillo, BlindSquare, Proyecto ARGUS, entre otras.

Para las otras dos categorías, la de navegación nocturna, y la de
transporte de cosas, según nuestra investigación, no hay otras
aplicaciones en este mercado.

Como fuentes públicas, planeamos tener principalmente a las
instituciones de apoyo a las personas no videntes.

Esperamos desarrollar software de calidad, que mejore la calidad de vida
de la gente, por lo que suponemos que dentro de las comunidades de gente
con recién nacidos, y no videntes, se esparcirá el nombre y la calidad
de nuestra app.

Por lo menos por ahora, no esperamos tener fuentes comerciales para
informar al público sobre nuestro producto, aunque no descartamos algún
tipo de publicidad para el futuro.

Evaluación de alternativas

Como nuestra app, y las otras alternativas son gratuitas, no creemos que
los posibles clientes analicen en mucho detalle la funcionalidad de cada
una de las apps, sino que probablemente prueben una por una, y estamos
convencidos, por las características de la nuestra comparada con las
demás, que será elegida en la mayoría de los casos.

BlindSquare cuesta 27€, y tiene funcionalidad muy reducida en
comparación, ya que no puede armar caminos optimizados y no avisa ni
tiene en cuenta de ninguna manera, los obstáculos de la calle.

Lazarillo, tiene una interfaz mucho mejor que la de BlindSquare, y es
gratis, pero tampoco tiene en cuenta los obstáculos ni a la hora de la
navegación y ni a la hora del cálculo de los caminos.

El Proyecto ARGUS tiene la debilidad de que requiere de auriculares con
tecnología de sonido 3D, que son caros y difíciles de conseguir en todos
lados.

Decisión de compra

Nuestro análisis de comportamiento del consumidor no es completamente
estándar debido a que durante la parte de desición de compra, el usuario
no tiene que gastar dinero en adquirir la app.

No entendimos bien los factores de “actitudes de los otros” y de
“factores de situaciones inesperados”.

Comportamiento posterior a la compra

Después de la adquisición de la app, que esperamos hacerla gratuita, no
creemos que los usuarios tengan mucha expectativa, debido a que uno
espera menos de las apps gratuitas. Nosotros terminaremos una versión
primitiva de la app dentro de poco, por lo que tendremos medio año más
para pulirla y perfeccionarla, por lo que creemos que superaría las
expectativas de los futuros clientes.

Investigación de Mercado

Luego de estar en contacto con personas ciegas y que nos contaron la
problemática nos dimos cuenta que nuestro mercado es bastante grande.
Además nuestro mercado fue ampliado a casi cualquier persona por el
hecho de que agregamos funcionalidad específica para la navegación más
segura por la calle durante la noche.

Al ser una aplicación única en su tipo no tendríamos ningún tipo de
competencia para la navegación nocturna ni con carritos. Para la parte
de navegación de gente no vidente, tendríamos competencia en forma de
las apps previamente mencionadas, las cuales ya analizamos.

Sin embargo, buscaríamos realizar una encuesta de fácil distribución
para consultar si la gente estaría dispuesta a realizar los reportes.

Mercado Objetivo y Posicionamiento

El mercado objetivo de Glös es principalmente gran parte de personas con
discapacidad ya sea discapacidad visual como discapacidad motriz.
Podemos abarcar a estos dos grupos ya que nuestra plataforma es ideal
para que ellos tengan una mejor experiencia en la vía pública. Desde ya
con esta misma funcionalidad podemos incluir a personas que quieran o
necesiten transportar estas pueden ser como, personas que salgan a
pasear con un cochecito y personas dedicadas a transportes los cuales
tengan que bajar una carga. También apuntamos a un mercado de personas
que anden por la calle de noche ya que junto a la funcionalidad de
calles iluminadas ellos podrán tener una experiencia más segura.
Nosotros entendemos que nuestra empresa va a ser un factor fundamental
para la vida de una persona con algún tipo de discapacidad ya que
cambiará la manera en la que se moviliza.

Análisis Estratégico

Fortalezas

Nuestra compañía tiene múltiples capacidades internas, unas que nos
diferencian de la competencia, ambiente de trabajo amigable, nuestros
productos son totalmente gratuitos, disponemos de una vasta base de
datos con obstáculos, nuestra clave es el crowdsourcing, es decir que la
misma sociedad ayuda a mejorar su propia navegación. Dentro de nuestros
recursos son, contactos con Cilsa, disponemos de un capacitado equipo en
varias ramas, programación y diseño. Tenemos un diseño no vidente muy
superior que el resto de las aplicaciones.

El resto de las aplicaciones para personas no videntes no tienen en
cuenta con la cantidad y el posicionamiento de obstáculos en el camino.
Esa es una ventaja fundamental que tenemos por sobre el resto de las
aplicaciones.

Oportunidades

Nuestro proyecto es una oportunidad única ya que creemos que debido a su
evidente importancia y la falta de competencia se puede alcanzar
rápidamente una buena penetración en el mercado, tenemos bajas tarifas
(pocos gastos), la demanda en el mercado es muy alta, es decir que hay
una necesidad del producto, pero la mayoría de la gente no lo sabe, la
poca necesidad de personal.

Debilidades

Entre nuestras debilidades se encuentra la necesidad de que los usuarios
estén dispuestos a reportar, la falta de ingresos directo por la
aplicación que condiciona a necesitar donaciones, la dependencia de
terceros en gran parte del proyecto, en cuanto al mapa con Google maps y
a los servidores con Aws, no tenemos un establecimiento físico (por
ahora) que de seguridad a los usuarios en caso de algún reclamo puntual.

Amenazas

Que surja otra aplicación similar y logre un mayor alcance o mayor
adhesión de los usuarios. Que google maps u otra aplicación similar
adopte nuestra modalidad de funcionamiento y debido a poseer un mayor
alcance logre adueñarse del mercado, que alguna de las aplicaciones por
las cuales somos dependientes, funda o mute, en ese caso nos generaría
un problema por ejemplo, que Aws no brinde más un servicio público para
todo el mundo, otra amenaza puede ser el gobierno queriendo adueñarse de
nuestra idea, hagan su propio proyecto gratuito y al tener mayores
recursos de distribución, ocupen el mercado.

Descripción de Producto o Servicio

Nuestra app brinda al usuario un servicio de navegación adaptado para
ofrecer una ruta equilibrada entre una distancia corta y un camino con
las veredas en mejor estado. Esto es posible gracias a la otra sección
de la app, la sección de reportes, mediante la cual, los usuarios o
simplemente gente que quiera ayudar, puedan reportar los daños
encontrados en las veredas. De esta manera se procesa la solicitud en
nuestro servidor y utilizando la base de datos de obstáculos se genera
una ruta óptima.

Elevator Pitch

Las personas que sufren de discapacidades visuales o motrices suelen
encontrarse con una gran dificultad a la hora de moverse por la vía
pública debido al deficiente estado de las veredas. Por eso creamos
Glos, una aplicación de navegación que guía al usuario por la ruta más
óptima utilizando una base datos sobre el estado de las veredas. Esta
base de datos es alimentada por el aporte de la comunidad y los mismos
usuarios.

Estrategia de Precio

La aplicación se ofrecerá gratuitamente así que en un principio
buscaremos financiación mediante donaciones, los aportes de empresas con
responsabilidad social y ONGs, aunque no descartamos en un futuro la
posibilidad de incorporar publicidades en el mapa. Estimamos un costo de
mantenimiento de alrededor de US$500 mensuales.

Estrategia de Distribución

Como canales de Distribución utilizaremos las tiendas de iOS Appstore y
Google Play para garantizar un fácil acceso a la aplicación.

Estrategia de Comunicación

Buscamos darnos a conocer mediante las redes sociales de CILSA y otras
ONG que nos apoyen.

Propósito

Nuestro propósito es permitir que la gente con discapacidad pueda
acceder a la vía pública de la misma manera que las personas sin
disapacidad.

Marca

Nuestra marca se centra en remarcar la confiabilidad de nuestra app, que
todos la pueden usar y todos pueden ayudar para que sea mejor. Que
utilizamos proveedores reconocidos a nivel mundial y que atendemos a una
necesidad real de personas con y sin discapacidad.

Merchandising

Por ahora no tenemos planificado ningún tipo de merchandising, pero a
futuro se podrían hacer artículos básicos, como gorras y remeras. Una
posible idea interesante a futuro es la impresión de pequeñas piezas en
3d que puedan ayudar de alguna manera específica a nuestros usuarios.
Parecido a lo que IKEA hizo con sus muebles, pero para gente con
discapacidades visuales y motrices en la calle. Por ejemplo, podrían ser
aditamentos para el palo blanco o para la silla de ruedas.

Promociones

Publicidad

Por ahora tenemos pensadas tres campañas.

Para la aplicación es crucial tener dos tipos de usuarios, los que
reportan, y los que disfrutan los frutos de los reportes.

Por esta razón, tenemos tres campañas planificadas.

La primera es para concientizar a la sociedad en general sobre la
existencia de la app y su funcionalidad.

La segunda se concentra en incentivar los reportes de obstáculos en las
verdes y de iluminación.

La tercera incentiva el uso por parte de nuestros usuarios finales de la
funcionalidad de navegación.

Relaciones Públicas

Nuestra empresa busca mantener una relación amistosa entre los usuarios
y nosotros, mostrando confiabilidad ante los usuarios y un ambiente
amigable y entendible, buscar publicidades inclusivas al 100%, teniendo
una atención al cliente entrenada y muy bien atendida, una UX exelente
serán nuestros objetivos, que el usuario se sienta como en casa.

Marketing Directo

Nuestra forma pensada hasta ahora para conectarnos directo con el
usuario final es a través de notificaciones targeteadas mediante la app.
Las personas que normalmente se dedican a reportar, recibirán recuerdos,
o felicitaciones, por ejemplo por haber ayudado a x cantidad de personas
ese mes con sus reportes.

Y en general, a todos los usuarios, les avisaremos de nuestros eventos o
experiencias por correo electrónico, y por las notificaciones.

Eventos y Experiencias

Podríamos tener una serie de eventos similares en los que se haga lo
siguiente:

-   Generemos conciencia en la gente sobre las problemáticas de las
    personas con discapacidad. Se puede hacer en conjunto con CILSA e
    incluso se puede utilizar el proyecto SAE para demostrar las
    dificultades que tienen los ciegos para transitar por la vía
    pública.

-   Incentivar el reporte.

-   Incentivar el uso de la navegación.

-   Fomentar la comunicación y conocimiento entre los dos tipos de
    usuarios.

Plan de Medios

Nosotros apuntamos a utilizar principalmente los medios del gobierno
para nuestra publicidad, la televisión pública, carteles en la calle,
redes sociales del gobierno, además de poder acceder a publicidad de
boca a boca entre la gente, que sería a donde mas apuntamos.

Manifesto de la Marca

Principios generales

Inclusión y colaboración

La inclusión es la base de una sociedad justa e igualitaria, en la que
todos convivimos en paz y armonía. El valor de la inclusión se debe
transmitir generacion a generacion, para que todo el mundo pueda
convivir y colaborar entre sí. Debemos aceptar que todos somos iguales y
tenemos los mismos derechos y merecemos los mismos tratos, todos
formamos parte y colaboramos para establecer la igualdad social. Los
ciudadanos, gobernantes, niños, niñas, ancianos, ancianas, tenemos el
deber de garantizar la igualdad de circulación para todos los
ciudadanos.

Colaboramos entre todos

Continuando con el concepto de inclusión en la sociedad, es necesario
que todos colaboremos con un granito de arena para tener un mundo mejor.
La circulación por la via pública necesita de todos para que sea
igualitaria y segura para los ciudadanos en un cien por ciento de
capacidad.

Nos comprometemos a

Tener un buen trato

Nos comprometemos a ser respetuosos y cuidadosos en la manera en que
tratamos a nuestra comunidad y a hablar cuando sea seguro hacerlo. La
bondad es una responsabilidad que comienza por cada uno de nosotros.

Denunciar las injusticias

Nos comprometemos a estar alertas ante cualquier injusticia en la vida
cotidiana y denunciar, cualquier accionar que irrumpa con la igualdad e
inclusión mundial que buscamos, así mismo aquellos que hagan oídos
sordos a estas denuncias.

Tomar medidas

Nos comprometemos a accionar para poder solucionar estas injusticias
hasta que, sean eliminadas, o cesen en su actividad

Anexos

Bibliografía consultada

-   https://www.technologyreview.es/s/10261/hololens-se-convierte-en-un-exito-para-guiar-ciegos-por-interiores

-   https://www.cambio16.com/un-gps-para-ciegos-con-sonidos-3d-para-llegar-a-su-destino/

-   https://versinlimitesaccesibilidad.com/blindsquare/

-   https://www.lazarillo.cl/en/#

-   https://www.saavedraonline.com.ar/la-ciudad/habilitan-una-herramienta-colaborativa-para-controlar-obras-en-veredas-desde-el-celular/

Referencias


Please tell us what you value most about Columbia and why.

Rev. 1

-   Columbia’s commitment to climate change. For example, the project in
    which they turn carbon dioxide to rock to fight global warming.

-   Columbia allows CS majors and non CS majors to take COMS courses
    together, which bring different perspectives to the table, fomenting
    a richer understanding of the subjects.

-   I’m particularly fascinated by the CS in Context course. Even though
    it is not for CS majors, I believe it would be a great opportunity
    to learn how theoretical concepts can be applied to the real world,
    with concrete examples from financing to the social sciences.

-   I’m interested in developing ideas and building a company that
    generates a positive social impact. Columbia has the same commitment
    I do to improve society, as I saw in the Columbia Commitment website
    and there is account of initiative similar to the one I want to
    start.
    http://www.cs.columbia.edu/2016/droices-drug-prescription-analyzer-from-idea-to-hospital-wide-rollout-in-less-than-12-months/

-   The course on Cloud computing & Big Data as well as the one
    Large-Scale Distributed Systems for me is fundamental because large
    amounts of data need to be processed, and even more will need to be
    processed in the future, especially in healthcare, one of the
    industries I want to address.

Rev. 1

~~On of the first things that stood out to me about Columbia’s
commitment to~~ ~~climate change. I was impressed by how they were
trying to transform carbon dioxide gas into rocks to help fight global
warming.~~

Another aspect of Columbia I believe is really important is that it
allows CS majors and non CS majors to take COMS courses together, which
bring diverse perspectives to the table, fomenting a richer
understanding of the subject. This is also helped by classes such as CS
in Context, that even though is not for CS majors, I believe would be a
great opportunity for me to learn how theoretical concepts can be
applied to the real world, with concrete examples from financing to the
social sciences.

Large amount of data needs to be processed, and even more will need to
be in the future. The courses on Cloud Computing & Big Data as well on
the one on Large-Scale Distributed Systems will be fundamental for me to
understand how this technology can be applied to industries I’m
interested in, such as healthcare and finance.

I wish to use these and other developments to start a company that
generates a positive social impact. Columbia will provide me with the
tools necessary for me to achieve this as part of the entrepreneurship
program. One of the examples that fascinated me was that of Droice, the
Columbia born drug analysis company that went from idea to production in
twelve months through the participation in the Columbia Venture
Competition.

Rev. 2 (G, T e I)

Years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came across
an article on the application of a text manipulation algorithm for
analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

Since that day, through the development of various projects, such as a
chemical equation balancer and a patient management program, I developed
a passion for biochemistry and medicine. Columbia’s Computer Science
Department program in Computational Biology presents an incredible
opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I want to work
alongside the likes of Itsik Pe'er, whose research on how changes to DNA
sequencing affect biological processes I am very interested in.

Moreover, I am excited at the idea of meeting faculty and students
through the Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics and the
other health-oriented departments. With everything I learn from these
opportunities I want to start a company that generates a positive social
impact. Columbia can provide me with the tools necessary to achieve this
through its robust entrepreneurship program.

One of the examples of this support that fascinated me was that of
Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis company that went from idea to
production in twelve months through the participation in the Columbia
Venture Competition, of which I hope to compete in.

Rev. FINAL

Years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came across
an article about the application of a text manipulation algorithm for
analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

Later, through the development of various projects, such as a chemical
equation balancer and a patient management program, I developed an
interest in biochemistry and medicine. Columbia’s Computer Science
Department program in Computational Biology offers an incredible
opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I want to work
alongside the likes of Itsik Pe'er, whose research on how changes to DNA
sequencing affect biological processes.

Moreover, I am excited by the opportunity of contributing an intern at
the Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics and the other
health-oriented departments. With everything I learn from these
opportunities I want to start a company that generates a positive social
impact. Columbia can provide me with the tools necessary to achieve this
through its robust entrepreneurship program.

One of the examples of this support that encouraged me was the launch of
Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis company that went from idea to
production in twelve months through the participation in the Columbia
Venture Competition, in which I hope to compete.


Documentation for the Polh API

/api/

  /ap

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

/user/

  /user/signup POST

  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/login POST
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/verify-account POST
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/renew-keys POST
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/get-keys GET
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/get-data GET
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

  /user/get-data GET
  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)

/user/:userId DELETE

  Sample request:

  (add sample request)

  Sample response

  (add result of a successful response)


1.  Catherine Yeh + Cynthia Chen

2.  Nina Lei

3.  Ayush

4.  Chunggi Lee

5.  —---

6.  Junseok Joon Kang

7.  Joey Huang

8.  Trevor DePodesta


Summarize the points made in the lecture, explaining how they cast doubt
on the reading.

In the lecture, (speaker) made several points about (topic). (speaker)
argues that (main idea of lecture). However, the author of the passage
contends that (main idea of reading). The (speaker)’s lecture casts
doubt on the reading by using a number of points that are contrary to
(main point of the reading).

The first point that (speaker) uses to cast doubt on the reading is
(point 1). According to (speaker), (detail of point 1). (point 1)
differs from the reading in that the reading states the (point 1 of
reading). The point made by (speaker) casts doubt on the reading because
(how lecture differs from reading).

Another point that (speaker) uses to cast doubt on the reading is (point
2). The (speaker) claims that (detail of point 2). However, the reading
states that (point 2 of reading). This point is contradicted by (point 2
from lecture).

In conclusion, the points made by the lecture contrast with the reading.
(points 1 and 2 from lecture) demonstrate that (main idea of reading) is
in doubt.

Summarize the points made in the lecture, explaining how they support
the reading.

In the lecture, (speaker) made several points about (topic). (speaker)
claims that (main idea of lecture). The points made by (speaker) support
(main idea of reading). In fact, the examples given by (speaker) support
(main idea of reading).

The first point used by (speaker) to support the reading is (point 1).
According to (speaker), (details about point 1). (point 1) support the
reading, which states that (point 1 reading). The point made by
(speaker) supports the reading because (reason).

(speaker) also bolsters the reading by claiming that (point 2).
(speaker) claims that (detail point 2). This point agrees with the
reading, which contends that (point 2 reading). The (point 2 lecture)
shows the truth of the reading because (reason).

In conclusion, the points made in the lecture support the reading.
(point 1 and 2 lecture) demonstrate that (main idea reading) is valid.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?

WTHe issue at hand is (prompt). This issue is (whta) because (reason). I
belieive (choice), is a better choice because (list of reasons).

(choice) is preferable because (reason 1). (details reason 1). I think
(choice) is a better option because (reason 1 reason).

Aditionally, (choice) is better because (reason 2). (details reason 2).
I believe (choice) is a bette option because (reason 2 reason).

Based on (deatils reason3) is a better because (reason 3). (details
reason 3). Finally, I think (choice) is preferable because (reason 3
reason).

Ultimately, I feel that (choice) is the correct one. I believe this
because (the 3 reasons).

The issue at hand is (promp). This issue is (what) because (reason). I
believe (choice), is the better option because (the 3 reasons).

(choice) is preferable because (point 1). (detail point 1). I think
(choic) is a better choice because (reson).

Aditionally, (choice) is better because (point 2). (detail point 2). I
believe (choie) is better because (reason).

Based on detail 3 is the right choice because (reason 3). (details a

The issue at hand is (prompt). This issue is (what) because (reason). I
believe (choice) is the better option because (list 3 reasons).

(choice) is preferable because (reason 1). (details reson 1). I think
(choice) is a better choice because (reason1).

Additionally, (choice ) is better because (reason 2). (details reason
2). I believe (choice) is a better option because.

Based on (detail reason 3), is a better choice because (reason 3).
(detail reason 3). I believe (choice) is a better option because (reason
3).

Ultimately I think (choice) is the right choice. I feel this because
(list 3 reasons).


Guido Ungar, Milena Rosman, Lautaro Hernando, Federico Sonkin, Iñaki
Arango y Bautista Chehin

TIC - Sede Belgrano guido.un@hotmail.com, milenarosman@gmail.com,
lautihernando@gmail.com, sonkinfede@gmail.com, arangoinaki@gmail.com,
bautichehin@gmail.com

Abstract

El objetivo de este proyecto es ayudar principalmente a aquellas
personas que padezcan de algún tipo de discapacidad visual y/o motriz y
se encuentren con la necesidad de circular por la vía pública. Tuvimos
la idea de generar una plataforma que permita guiar a personas con
discapacidad a través de la ciudad.

Glös utiliza un algoritmo que calcula la mejor ruta posible, balanceando
el tiempo de recorrido, la distancia, y la cantidad de obstáculos.

Diseñamos una interfaz que se adapta al usuario. Si éste sufre de una
discapacidad visual, la app ofrece una versión más simple y optimizada
haciendo énfasis en la accesibilidad.

Introducción

En la vida cotidiana, cuando uno camina por la calle suele encontrarse
con varios obstáculos, como una baldosa rota, un árbol caído, una obra
en construcción, etc; pero uno los ve, los esquiva y sigue adelante.

Las personas que cuentan con algún tipo de discapacidad visual y/o
motriz no van a poder esquivar y continuar tan fácilmente. Es probable
que no lo vean, se tropiecen, y terminen sufriendo un accidente.

Otra posibilidad, en el caso de alguna persona que cuente con una
discapacidad motriz, es que se le dificulte esquivarlo, y probablemente
deba dar la vuelta y elegir otro camino.

Y no son solo quienes tienen alguna discapacidad los que padecen este
problema. Las madres embarazadas, personas que se encuentren llevando un
carrito de compras, un carro de bebes, la gente que transita a altas
horas de la noche, querrán saber cuáles son las calles con la mejor
iluminación. Mucha gente ha tenido que caminar por la ciudad de noche en
zonas poco iluminadas. Uno se siente inseguro, y no sin motivo, es más
fácil que se convierta en víctima de violencia a oscuras.

Herramientas y Tecnologías

La aplicación está siendo desarrollada, utilizando el framework de
ReactJS y React Native, lo que nos permite utilizar componentes nativos
tanto para iOS como para Android. Esto hace posible su uso en
prácticamente cualquier dispositivo móvil, incluyendo dispositivos de
las gamas más bajas.

Sumado a eso, tenemos un sistema que disminuye al mínimo los
requerimientos de los celulares de los usuarios y que minimiza los datos
móviles utilizados. Esto es posible en virtud de que la mayor parte del
procesamiento es realizada por nuestro servidor y de manera remota,
asegurando así un funcionamiento fluido e ininterrumpido para el
usuario.

El servidor corre sobre el framework NodeJS y utiliza la librería
Express que permite manejar en paralelo los pedidos de los usuarios,
mientras es utilizada como base de datos MongoDB, asegurando respuestas
rápidas y un guardado seguro de los datos de los usuarios.

El algoritmo para elegir el mejor recorrido, según las necesidades de
cada usuario, fue ideado por nosotros y actualmente pondera las
posiciones de los obstáculos en nuestra y otras bases de datos (como las
de los gobiernos locales).

Utilizamos varias de las tecnologías provistas por Google Maps. La
aplicación utiliza el visualizador de mapa y rutas para dispositivos
móviles de Google y nuestro algoritmo funciona por sobre el algoritmo de
búsqueda de rutas cortas en tiempo provisto por una API de Google Maps.

Nuestra plataforma está siendo desarrollada en colaboración con CILSA,
ONG por la inclusión, con quien trabajamos en conjunto para el
desarrollo de nuestro proyecto anterior, SAE, de concientización con el
uso de realidad virtual.

Esta colaboración nos permite tener contacto directo con quienes serían
los principales beneficiarios de esta aplicación y, de esa forma,
entender qué funcionalidades son las que prioritariamente necesitan.

Otro pilar importante en el desarrollo es la interfaz para el usuario,
la cual busca ser lo más simple y amigable posible sin perder
funcionalidad. La misma está desarrollada para adaptarse a las
necesidades del mismo.

En la siguiente imagen se pueden ver la screenshots de nuestra
aplicación.

[]

Selección de ubicación de obstáculos

[]

Mis lugares, donde se guardan los lugares frecuentemente visitados

[]

Selección de tipo de obstáculo

[]

Pantalla principal de navegación

Desarrollo

Este proyecto comenzó como dos aplicaciones con targets distintos, una
iba a estar orientada para personas con algún tipo de discapacidad,
quienes iban a disfrutar del sistema mejorado de enrutamiento en
veredas, y la otra para quienes quieran denunciar los obstáculos para
ayudar a las personas que sufran alguna discapacidad.

En el proceso de desarrollo nos dimos cuenta de que esta aplicación
puede ayudar a una cantidad de personas que ni habíamos tenido en
cuenta, muchas de las cuales eran capaces de también denunciar; por lo
que decidimos unirlas en una sola.

Aclaraciones

Cabe aclarar que nuestra plataforma también podría ser una gran fuente
de datos para los gobiernos de las distintas ciudades; porque tenemos la
capacidad de proveerles información actualizada en tiempo real sobre el
estado de sus veredas y servicios.

Posibles desafíos

Uno de los principales desafíos es conseguir tracción. Los navegantes no
desearán usar la aplicación hasta que realmente entregue una mejor
experiencia, lo que puede ser logrado una vez que muchos obstáculos son
declarados. El problema radica en que nadie va a sentirse incentivado a
manifestar posibles inconvenientes hasta que sientan que están generando
un impacto.

Por esta razón, pensamos en un sistema de incentivos donde se visualiza
desde la app un ranking por localidad y por país de las personas que más
aportaron. De esta manera, desbloqueamos la traba y, de a poco, tanto
los denunciantes como los navegantes comienzan a usar cada vez más la
app.

También pensamos en asociarnos con ONGs y gobiernos o municipalidades
para promocionar la aplicación.

Al final de cada mes, el usuario que esté en número 1 del ranking de su
ciudad, será recompensado con un detalle cosmético que podrá utilizar
dentro de su perfil en la app.

Conclusión

Aprendimos que la tecnología, que normalmente pensamos que separa y
aísla a la gente, si está bien implementada, puede resultar muy
beneficiosa para la sociedad. En particular, para las personas que
cuenten con algún tipo de discapacidad. Debemos tener una mirada
inclusiva. Esto implica el tener en cuenta cómo las decisiones que uno
toma, pueden afectar a todos los sectores de la sociedad.

Esperamos que, por la automatización de procesos o implementación de
nuevas soluciones tecnológicas, no se deje de lado a determinados
sectores. Hay que hacer que la tecnología incluya, no que excluya.

Referencias:

Recursos de desarrollo:

React Native: https://facebook.github.io/react-native/

Google Maps Platform: https://cloud.google.com/maps-platform/?hl=es/

NodeJS: https://nodejs.org/es/

MongoDB: https://www.mongodb.com/es

Ministerio de Ambiente y Espacio Público:
https://www.buenosaires.gob.ar/ambiente-y-espacio-publico

Agradecimientos:

Agradecemos a la Escuela ORT por el apoyo que nos dieron a lo largo de
todo el proceso de desarrollo, al gobierno de la ciudad, por habernos
recibido, a CILSA, y a Mateo Salvato. Especiales agradecimientos a Inti,
integrante del equipo de concientización de CILSA, por colaborar con
nosotros en la idea y en la creación de un video de difusión de nuestra
app.

También queremos agradecer a los profesores de TIC, Darío Mischener,
Ariel Agradnik, Rubén Krawicky y Sofía Andrade.


Why Princeton?

-   Princeton’s history as brewing pot for computer science

-   The culture

    -   I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track and
        with a cohort in my highschool and I look forward to a
        tight-knit environment within which to form meaningful
        relationships with students in all areas of study. Another
        aspect I am looking forward to is the close relationships with
        faculty that Princeton encourages. I have benefited enormously
        from the mentorship of my teachers in the past and hope to
        engage with professors at Princeton in similar ways.

-   The academics

    -   CS department and by Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative
        Genomics.

    -   I do not only want to study computational biology, I hope to
        play a part in advancing it. I want to work alongside Barbara
        Engelhardt, whose work on protein prediction I believe will
        impact future medical research, and Mona Singh, who works on the
        application of machine learning algorithms to massive biological
        datasets.

    -   Center for Information Technology Policy -> I know how big of a
        role policy has on the adoption of new technologies and I want
        to take part of the conjoined program between the CS department
        and Woodrow Wilson School of Public & International Affairs to
        be able to understand how these two areas interact.

-   The opportunities

    -   Keller Center’s eLab Incubator -> I want to start a company that
        has a positive social impact.

What I learned from my most difficult challenge

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Questions

-   Were you part of any international students organization?

-   How would you describe the culture at Princeton? Does it feel weird
    to be a foreigner?

-   Were your professors approachable? Did you feel you could ask them
    things or even talk about topics not related directly to your
    classes?

-   Which part of the Princeton experience do you believe had the
    biggest influence on you? Did you keep in touch with other alumni?

-   What was you favorite part of studying at Princeton?


Dear Dr. <INSERT LASTNAME>,

I hope your day is going well!

My name is Iñaki Arango. I am a Junior currently studying Computer
Science and Statistics at Harvard. Before coming to college I took a gap
year and a half and worked as a software engineer, VC and started a
recycling logistics startup offering services to consumer product
brands. For your reference, please find attached a copy of my CV.

I am reaching out to you to learn more about your research

<INSERT SOMETHING PERSONALIZED ABOUT THEIR RESEARCH>

Building systems, especially if they automate tasks, is one of my
favorite things, and what I mainly worked on last summer.

Recently, I have become more interested in research and was looking for
something that would combine AI/ML/Stats with systems, and a friend from
Stanford shared with me your name. Your FlashAttention work seems super
interesting, as well as well as the work you are doing blending systems
and AI.

I'm at Stanford visiting a friend for Thanksgiving until Saturday and
was wondering if you would be free to meet. I would love to learn more
about your experience, the work you are doing, and everything that
brought you to where you are right now. If you are not here at this time
or aren't free it would also be great to talk over Zoom.

Looking forward to your response!

Best regards,

Iñaki


Iñaki Arango

+54 9 11 3401-0602

Prototipo de Reindi

14 de septiembre, 2019

Introducción

Esta es la presentación de proyecto para el prototipo de Reindi.

Objetivos

1.  Demostración técnica: La construcción de un prototipo que cuente con
    la funcionalidad básica que se espera que tenga la plataforma
    probará que es posible manejar documentos médicos eficientemente a
    través de Blockchain.

2.  Construcción de los cimientos: Se espera que el prototipo de la
    plataforma constituya las bases a partir de las cuales se seguirá
    desarrollando la misma hasta llegar al producto final.

Especificaciones

Se software estará separado en dos partes, el Frontend (la interfaz con
la que interactúa el usuario), y el Backend (el programa que corre en el
servidor y que se encarga de suministrar de información al Frontend).

El Frontend utilizará el framework Vue.js, aprovechando la tecnología
Progressive Web App, que permitirá transformar en una app
automáticamente al sitio web.

El Backend utilizará Express.js, corriendo sobre Node.js. para
conectarse con el Frontend, utilizará la tecnología de intercambio de
mensajes de Facebook, GraphQL.

Se utilizaran las reglas de estilo para JavaScript desarrolladas por
Airbnb. Esto será tanto para el Backend como para el Frontend.

Hitos (Información más precisa en el Roadmap)

Sprint 1

  Creación de los proyectos de código básicos para el Frontend y el
  Backend. Implica inicializar los proyectos, instalar todas las
  librerías básicas y confiugrar los entornos de desarrollo para luego
  continuar con el desarrollo.

Sprint 2

  Actualización de los contratos de blockchain para soportar documentos
  binarios (PDFs, imágenes, etc.). Desarrollo del login con multiples
  roles (terapeuta, médico, paciente) y de la habilidad para subir
  documentos existentes.

Sprint 3

  Creación de las páginas de login y de signup y desarrollo de la
  habilidad de subir documentos de perfil.

Sprint 4

  Desarrollo de la creación de documentos completamente digitales.
  Implementación en el servidor de la lista To-Do para los pacientes.
  Primeros pasos de la conexión entre el Backend y Pölh.

Sprint 5

  Desarrollo del Backend para poder obtener de Pölh los documentos de
  perfil. Pulir el diseño de la interfaz.

Sprint 6

  Finalización de la integración del Backend de Reindi con Pölh y la
  Blockchain de Ethereum. Pruebas para comprobar el correcto
  funcionamiento del sistema.

Metodología de trabajo

Se utilizará la metodología de Scrumban, una mezcla de Scrum y de
Kanban.

Habrá una reunión semanal entre el Project Manager y el equipo de
desarrollo, y una entre el Project Manager y la “dirección” del
proyecto.

Los Epics del Roadmap están divididos en sprints, cada uno con una
duración de una semana.

Las tarjetas dentro de los sprints representan tareas, que serán
reacomodadas al principio de la semana dependiendo de información que
surja durante el desarrollo del proyecto.

Se planea en principio una dedicación semanal por trabajador de 4 horas
por semana.

Pago

El pago se realizará en dólares, de forma semanal.

Los pagos corresponderían a cuatro trabajadores:

-   Project Manager: Iñaki Arango -> U$D 35

-   Programador de Backend: Hernan Lanusse -> U$D 35

-   Programador de Frontend: Iñaki Arango -> U$D 35

-   Integrador de Blockchain: Dylan Szejnblum -> U$D 35

Aclaración

Todo el código desarrollado exclusivamente para la plataforma de Reindi
será propiedad de la “dirección”.

Se espera que el desarrollo sea de 6 semanas, pero de ocurrir alguún
percance que fuerce al desarrollo a extenderse por fuera de las fechas
estipuladas, se negociará en el momento.


[horizontal line] 

[Placeholder image]

Project Name

09.04.20XX

─

Your Name

Your Company

123 Your Street

Your City, ST 12345

Overview

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam
nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna aliquam erat
volutpat. Ut wisi enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exerci tation
ullamcorper.

Goals

1.  Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit

2.  Sed diam nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna
    aliquam erat volutpat.

Specifications

Nam liber tempor cum soluta nobis eleifend option congue nihil imperdiet
doming id quod mazim placerat facer possim assum. Typi non habent
claritatem insitam; est usus legentis in iis qui facit eorum claritatem.
Investigationes demonstraverunt lectores legere me lius quod ii legunt
saepius.

Lorem Ipsum

Duis autem vel eum iriure dolor in hendrerit in vulputate velit esse
molestie consequat, vel illum dolore eu feugiat nulla facilisis at vero
eros et accumsan.

Milestones

Lorem ipsum

  Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam
  nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna aliquam erat
  volutpat.

Dolor sit amet

  Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam
  nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna aliquam erat
  volutpat.


Hello Reviewers 👋,

Most of my big projects are in private repositories, so I could not
share the github repo in the application without first knowing the
GitHub username of the reviewers. In turn, I downloaded the repositories
and have uploaded them for viewing through Google Drive.

The contents of the trending competition code only include the portion
of code that is exclusively written by me. If you are interested in
seeing the full codebase, please let me know and I can run it by the
other contributors.

The other two repositories contain my startup’s code. The majority of
that code was written by me, but has recently seen changes made by our
new employees. It would have been very hard to isolate only files that
were my exclusive work, so I put the entire codebase, and can make
myself available at any time to clarify specifically how I contributed
to each part of the code.

For all repositories, I would greatly appreciate it if they are kept
private, as they would normally not be shared with anyone outside Recyco
and HUQT.

Looking forward to hearing your feedback!

Best,

Iñaki


Creamos estos recursos de ayuda para la gente de Argentina que quiere
aplicar a universidades en Estados Unidos. Esta carpeta es especial
ayuda para la gente que no tiene Counselors que los acompañen a lo largo
del proceso de solicitar admisión para las universidades de afuera.
Cuando uno está solo, el proceso puede resultar abrumador y complicado,
pero esperamos que con esto, se alivie un poco la cosa.

Aclaración: mirar el esquema de documento para acceder las partes del
documento rápidamente

Quiénes somos

Solo somos tres estudiantes argentinos que aplicaron a universidades de
Estados Unidos.

Iñaki - RiceU’25

Un capo.

Anto - JHU’25

Voy a estudiar biología celular y molecular y me interesa la
investigación científica, STEM, proyectos tecnológicos, idiomas
(japonés) y arte (pintura y dibujo).

Ig: anto.maco

Mail: antusmaco@gmail.com

Tomás Pablo Korenblit - UBA/alguna
Me gustan los robots y el cine. Creo que voy a estudiar algo relacionado
a CompSci / Environmental Studies / Earth and Planetary Science. Dónde?
No se.
Ig: korenblitt
Mail: tomaskorenblit@gmail.com

¿Por qué querés estudiar afuera?

Esta pregunta no la hago para desincentivar a nadie a irse a estudiar
afuera. La hago por dos motivos:

1.  Tener clara la razón por la que uno quiere estudiar afuera ayuda a
    impulsarte a vos mismo, para hacer tu mejor esfuerzo. Especialmente
    en los momentos difíciles, de duda, de nervios, sirve tener claro
    qué es lo que uno quiere, para poder atravesarlos.

2.  El proceso es largo y requiere mucho esfuerzo, dinero (relativo) y
    tiempo. Conviene estar seguro de que uno tiene ganas de hacerlo
    antes de empezarlo. Sino, uno se arriesga a dejar todo por la mitad
    y haber gastado tiempo que podrías haber usado para otras cosas.

Requerimientos para aplicar

Los requerimientos dependen para cada universidad, pero en general son
los siguientes:

-   TOEFL / Duolingo

-   SAT

-   ̶S̶A̶T̶ ̶S̶u̶b̶j̶e̶c̶t̶ ̶T̶e̶s̶t̶s̶ (ya no se hacen)

-   Common App / Coalition App / College Specific Application

-   College Board CSS o ISFAA

-   Letters of recomendation

-   Analítico del Secundario + Boletín del primer y segundo trimestre

NOTA: Deberías igual buscar los requerimientos de las universidades
específicas que te interesan. No vaya a hacer que te hayas esforzado un
montón y que tengas listo todo lo de arriba para enterarte al momento de
mandar la solicitud de que te falta algo.

TOEFL / Duolingo

El TOEFL es un examen general de inglés de una compañía estadounidense
llamada ETS. La versión más fácil de encontrar para rendir es la iBT. Se
rinde por computadora y está disponible en varias ciudades argentinas.
Acá podés buscar las fechas y los centros de examen en tu ciudad o
cerca.

Tiene 4 secciones: Reading, Listening, Speaking y Writing.Cada una
equivale a 30 puntos máximo. La mayoría de las universidades
prestigiosas requieren un puntaje mayor a 100/120 (o 102 en algunos
casos). Con práctica es super alcanzable. De todas maneras, esa
información la encontrarán en la página de requerimientos de cada
universidad a la que quieran solicitar admisión.

En Pandemia

Surgió una versión digital, TOEFL Home Edition que para muchos fue mejor
y para otros lo peor que hay. Consiste en rendir el exámen desde tu casa
en un horario que elijas. Haces un paneo de tu cuarto con la cámara y
tomas notas en una pizarra.
Desventajas: muchísimas personas tuvieron problemas de conexión o de
TOEFL mismo rindiendo el examen y llegaron a tener que rendir 3 veces
hasta que les funcionara.
Ventajas: rendis en la comodidad de tu hogar; cuando rendis TOEFL
Speaking presencial, nunca le hablas a un “entrevistador”, sino que
grabas un audio en la computadora. Lo mismo ocurre en la versión at
home. La diferencia es que cuando rendís presencial, grabas el audio en
la habitación con otras 100 personas rindiendo TOEFL también hablando al
mismo tiempo.

Dificultad

El TOEFL, dentro de todo, no es un examen de inglés muy exigente. Tiene
un nivel de dificultad B2, similar al CAE. Si pueden entender el
contenido en inglés del SAT, no creo que este les resulte muy difícil.
La posible excepción es la parte de ensayos del exámen, que es más larga
a lo que uno está acostumbrado a escribir con tan poco tiempo como el
que te dan. El examen en sí es estandarizado y es cuestión de costumbre
(es bastante distinto a los de Cambridge excepto reading) así que
mientras más practiques mejor te va a ir.

Duolingo

El Duolingo es otro examen estandarizado de inglés que sirve como
alternativa al TOEFL. Este examen comenzó a ser aceptado muchísimo más
en pandemia ya que antes pocas universidades lo aceptaban (creo que
Columbia era la única Ivy que lo aceptaba).

Ventajas:

-   Es mucho más barato. El TOEFL cuesta usd$200, mientras que el
    Duolingo creo que cuesta unos usd$60.

-   El formato es muy simple y en general no es un examen difícil.

-   Recibis tu resultado en 2 días máx., mientras que el TOEFL tarda 7
    (esto juega mucho si venis justo de tiempo, más que nada para las
    tus Early Action/Early Decision).

-   Además de salir menos, el Duolingo no tiene costo por enviarle tu
    nota a las universidades. Cuando rendis el TOEFL, muchas
    universidades te van a pedir que envies tus “official results”, lo
    cual se hace desde la página de la empresa del examen (ETS). Podes
    enviar a 4 unis de forma gratuita tus resultados, pero por fuera de
    esas a cada uni que te pida el TOEFL oficial vas a tener que pagar
    unos usd$15 (creo) para enviarlo.

Desventajas:

-   Algunas unis de tu lista pueden no aceptarlo, mientras que TODAS
    aceptan TOEFL.

-   El TOEFL es el examen “mejor visto”, el que se usa hace más tiempo.
    Te recomendamos muchísimo más rendir el TOEFL que el Duolingo pero a
    veces por temas de tiempo o económicos el Duolingo es la mejor
    opción y eso está perfecto.

-   No hay tanto material para estudiar como del TOEFL. ETS, la empresa
    de TOEFL, saca libros sobre su examen y es fácil encontrar practise
    tests en youtube. En cambio Duolingo te ofrece una práctica en su
    sitio y nada más.

SAT

El SAT es un examen de inglés y matemática, combinados. Está escrito
completamente en inglés.

En Pandemia

Con la pandemia, el SAT se hizo opcional e incluso no lo tenían en
cuenta algunas universidades ya que era muy difícil poder rendirlo (en
Argentina no abrieron los centros para rendir). Hay chances de que
muchas universidades en el ciclo 22-23 lo mantengan o lo tomen como una
decisión permanente.

Secciones

Tiene 4 secciones:

-   Reading: Una serie de textos de no más de una página cada una, con
    preguntas multiple choice que le siguen. Más info acá.

-   Writing & Grammar: Una serie de textos con errores gramaticales y de
    escritura, en paralelo con preguntas multiple choice sobre cómo
    corregirlos.

-   Math (No Calculator): Preguntas múltiple choice de matemática que
    suelen ser más simples pero te dan muy poco tiempo para resolverlas.

-   Math (Calculator): Preguntas múltiple choice de matemática un poco
    más complejas pero con una calculadora y más tiempo para resolver.

Velocidad

En Argentina, o por lo menos en los colegios a los que fui yo, los
exámenes de matemática se concentraban más en la justificación de los
problemas, pero en el SAT solo importa el resultado (--> examen
estandarizado). Además, la velocidad es muy importante ya que aunque el
examen dure 3 horas, y se pasa muy rápido cada sección.

Preparación

Libros recomendados por Anto:

-   Writing: Grammar by College Panda, The Ultimate Guide to SAT Grammar
    by Erica Meltzer, KHAN ACADEMY

-   Math: SAT Math College Panda, KHAN ACADEMY

-   Reading: The Ultimate Guide to SAT Reading by Erica Meltzer, KHAN
    ACADEMY

-   Todos: Libros oficiales de College Board para Practise Tests, Reddit
    para tips y tests, Discords de los Reddits.

Common App / Coalition App / College Specific Application

Common App y Coalition App son dos sitios web donde vas a enviar la
mayoría de tus applications. En este sitio vas a completar información
desde tus materias en la escuela secundaria hasta el año de graduación
de la facultad de tus padres. Hay mucha info por llenar acá pero no
suele ser complicado.

En la timetable, recién el 1ro de Agosto vas a empezar a completar tu
Common App, que es cuando abre todos los años normalmente. Antes no seas
ansios@ y te preocupes mucho por esto. Yo (Anto) empecé a completarla en
esta fecha y llegue perfecto a mis earlies.

Aclaración: vamos a enfocarnos principalmente en Common App ya que
ninguno de nosotros utilizó Coalition App para aplicar, pero deberían
ser similares.

Partes de CommonApp:

La sección del alumno: Acá es donde vas a completar dos subsecciones

-   Info general: desde el 1ro de Agosto te recomiendo empezar a llenar
    esta sección llamada “Common App”. Toda la info que va acá es la
    información general que vas a enviar a todas las universidades que
    apliques. La única info que vas a necesitar para completar la
    sección es tu promedio hasta el anteúltimo año del secundario, class
    rank hasta ese momento y las materias que cursaste desde 9th grade
    (sistema americano traducido al Argentino. Sería desde tu 1er año de
    capital o 2do de provincia). Vas a llenar datos personales básicos,
    info de tu familia, info de tu escuela y class rank, exámenes
    estandarizados, extracurriculares (max 10), premios (max 5) y
    materias con sus notas.

[]

-   Info de cada universidad: En la sección de “My Colleges” vas a
    encontrar los requerimientos e información de cada universidad que
    hayas agregado en la sección de “College Search”. Acá es donde
    llenas todo lo específico de cada universidad.

Primero te va a aparecer una sección con información de la
universidad.[]

Segundo, te van a aparecer unas preguntas específicas de la universidad,
tales como ¿Algún familiar tuyo estudió acá?¿Vas a solicitar beca por
necesidad financiera? Etc.

Tercero, en la sección “Recommenders and FERPA” es donde vas a elegir
que profesores suben tus cartas de recomendación para cada uni. Mirar la
sección “letters of recommendation” para más info de esto.

Cuarto, la sección “Writing Supplement > Questions”. acá es donde vas a
subir y averiguar los supplementals de cada uni.

La sección de los profes

Cuando consigas a los profes que charlamos antes (profesores buena onda
con los que te lleves bien) les vas a pedir una recommendation letter.
Esa carta en inglés ellos la van a subir a Common App tras crearse una
cuenta. Una vez dentro de Common App, el profe llena una serie de
preguntas sobre el alumno con respuestas del 1 al 5 y las envía con la
carta. Teniendo ya la respuesta enviada de tus profes (desde el lado del
alumno podes ver si se envió o no) podés elegir qué cartas van a cada
uni.

La sección del coordinador

Además de un profe, vas a tener que conseguir un coordinador o “college
counselor” que se encargue de esta tercera sección de Common App.
College Counselor en Argentina se puede traducir a coordinador (no tan
común), director de la especialidad, director de la escuela, coordinador
de alumnos, etc. Todo depende del tamaño de tu escuela y la voluntad de
la persona.

Una vez que hayas encontrado a esta persona, el college counselor va a
tener que crearse una cuenta. Desde el perfil del alumno lo vas a
invitar como tu counselor y a partir de ahí el counselor va a poder
acceder a tu perfil (un counselor puede tener muchos alumnos, lo mismo
el profesor. A eso me refiero con perfil).

El counselor va a realizar diversas tareas:

-   Si vos, alumno, haces un request de un “CommonApp fee waiver” en la
    sección “CommonApp” de tu CommonApp, vas a estar pidiendo un waiver
    para el costo de aplicar a todas las universidades de tu lista. Más
    adelante entraremos en profundidad pero básicamente el request del
    CommonApp waiver se lo envían a tu counselor y este decide si
    aceptarlo o rechazarlo.

-   Info general: tu counselor va a decir cual es tu promedio y class
    rank junto a otras cosas

-   Preguntas: se le va a hacer una serie de preguntas a tu counselor
    sobre el alumno en las cuales lo rankea del 1 al 5.

-   Documentos: El counselor tiene que subir una carta de recomendación
    desde el punto de vista de un coordinador, NO de un profesor. Además
    tiene que adjuntar un “School profile” o perfil de escuela en el que
    habla del modelo de tu escuela en particular.

College Specific Application

Algunas universidades como MIT o las UC no utilizan ni Common App ni
Coalition App. Estas usan sitios específicos para aplicar, lo cual puede
ser molesto si estás justo de tiempo pero la verdad es que son muy
fáciles de completar y no suelen pedir info muuuy distinta a la de
Common App. Los mayores cambios son los formatos de essays o
Extracurriculars pero eso es todo.

Letters of recommendation

Entrando más en detalle sobre las cartas de recomendación, te
recomendamos pedirle cartas de recomendación a profesores con los que
tengas muy buena relación y que vayan a destacar todas tus buenas
cualidades. Todas las universidades suelen pedir dos y algunas como MIT
te piden 1 de un profe de STEM y otra de un profe de Humanities. Es así
que recomendamos tener en total 3 cartas (para variedad y sumar si te
aceptan opcionales), que sean de profes cercanos y que tengas 2 de tu
tema (STEM o Humanities) y la restante del que no hayas elegido. Al
menos a mi (Anto) me hizo sentir más cómoda esa cantidad porque algunas
universidades te aceptan 2 cartas obligatorias y una opcional. Imaginate
que justo algun profe hizo una carta que al final no te gustó o el profe
no le puso ganas, entonces vos podes elegir que cartas mandar a cierta
uni.

CSS Profile o ISFAA

Otros temas importantes

-   Generalidades de las universidades de USA

-   Timetable

-   Estar en contacto / demostrar interés

-   Financial Aid

-   Investigar universidades y armar una lista

-   Essays

-   Extracurriculares, concursos y becas

-   Costos de aplicar

-   Programas USA para Seniors

Generalidades de las universidades de USA

ED, ED II, EA, REA y RD

A la hora de aplicar hay tres grandes “tipos” de applications.

ED:

Early Decision (ED) es un tipo de App que suele cerrar entre Octubre y
Noviembre (hay excepciones) y que muchas universidades tienen. ED es
binding, lo que quiere decir que cuando aplicas ED es como si firmaras
un contrato con una universidad diciendo que si entras sí o sí tenés que
ir ahí. A cambio se duplican y a veces triplican los acceptance rate de
entrar a dicha universidad. Solo podes aplicar ED a una.

¿A dónde tenés que aplicar ED? A la universidad que más te guste, ya que
si entras obligatoriamente tenés que ir (única excepción es si te dan
poco finaid y después de negociar sigue sin ser suficiente). Imaginate
que quedaste en tu uni soñada pero no podes ir porque aplicaste ED a
otra.

Aclaración: no todas las universidades tienen ED o alguna otra forma
binding. MIT, por ejemplo, no tiene ni ED ni REA. Aún así, creo que su
EA suma más chances de entrar que su RD.

ED II:

Early Decision II (ED II) es un tipo de App que suele cerrar entre
Diciembre y Enero. Es una oportunidad para aquellos que aplicaron y no
quedaron en su ED o REA. Es binding, por lo que si quedas tenés que ir.
La única diferencia que tiene con ED es cuando aplicas (Diciembre-Enero)
y cuando recibís las noticias (Febrero). MUY pocas tienen ED II.
Recomendación: aunque todavía no tengas noticias de tu ED, si te gusta
mucho alguna de tus lista que encima tiene ED II anda preparando todo
para aplicar por las dudas, lo peor que puede pasar es haber perdido un
poco de tiempo.

EA:

Early Action (EA) es un tipo de App que suele cerrar entre Octubre y
Noviembre (hay muchas excepciones) y que muchas universidades tienen. No
es binding, por lo que podes elegir si asistir o no si entraste a la
universidad. La mayor ventaja es enterarte si quedaste o no en
Diciembre/Enero, mientras que si no aplicas ED, REA o EA recién te
enteras en Marzo-Abril y que en la early siempre hay más finaid. A veces
el acceptance rate puede ser mayor (pasa en MIT) pero nunca va a haber
una diferencia como la hay con ED. No muchas universidades tienen EA
pero siempre está bueno ver cuales de tu lista lo tienen para priorizar
esa universidad e intentar llegar a esta etapa para tener las noticias
antes.

REA:

Restrictive Early Action (REA) es un tipo de App que suele cerrar entre
Octubre/Noviembre (hay excepciones) y que algunas universidades tienen
(especialmente las Ivy y similares). REA es binding con la universidad
al igual que ED, pero la gran diferencia es que si aplicas REA a una uni
no podes aplicar ED o EA a ninguna otra. Si aplicas ED podes también
aplicar EA a otras y está todo bien mientras aceptes ir a tu ED si
quedas, pero con la REA no está todo bien eso. Algunas unis con REA son
Harvard, Yale y Stanford. Te enteras de la decisión en Diciembre, al
igual que ED y EA.

RD:

Regular Decision (RD) es un tipo de App que suele cerrar entre Diciembre
y Enero (hay excepciones) y que TODAS universidades tienen. No es
binding y te enteras si quedaste en Marzo-Abril.

Majors y Minors

Major: la traducción sería carrera de grado. Es eso, la carrera que vas
a estudiar. Podés hacer un double major pero al menos en JHU siempre
elegis una carrera principal y no recibís “dos titulos” kinda.

MInor: sería como un terciario, pero no es exactamente eso. Es una
carrera pero más corta que cursas al mismo tiempo que tu major. Están
buenos para explorar nuevas áreas, complementar el major o poder
estudiar algún tema tipo arte o música que te interese mientras cursas
una carrera muy distinta.

Vocabulario

College: escuela de 4 años enfocada en undergraduates

University: escuela enfocada en graduates.

FAFSA: Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Es una application solo
para norteamericanos a becas federales. Los internationals no podemos
acceder a estas becas (por eso si sos international y necesitas beca no
apliques a las unis públicas de USA) así que vamos a ignorar el FAFSA.

Women's college: si no te identificas como hombre, los women’s college
pueden ser un a muy buena adición a tu lista. Son escuelas que
históricamente eran exclusivas para mujeres y que siguen sin aceptar
hombres. Muchas son muy buenas y reconocidas, como Barnard, Bryn Mawr,
Wellesley y Smith, además de que pueden tener un buen acceptance rate
(no todas). Barnard por ejemplo tiene el beneficio de tener convenio con
Columbia. Puede llegar a ser más sencillo entrar a Barnard que a
Columbia y estando en la uni podes rendir clases en ambas.

Vida universitaria: como en las pelis

Existe la vida en el campus, existen las fraternidades y existen los
dorms con un baño para todo el piso.

Timetable

En nuestra experiencia, estos son nuestros tiempos:

Anto:

Diciembre 11th grade: comencé la práctica SAT

Marzo 12th: iba a rendir SAT pero se canceló por pandemia.

Junio: ir armando lista de unis básica ya para este punto.

Junio-Julio: Ya iba pensando de qué hacer mi Personal Essay y en estas
épocas se me ocurrió la idea del essay.

Julio: mes de preparación TOEFL. No lleva mucho prepararlo pero hasta
que me anoté terminó siendo como un mes de práctica.

Fines de Julio-Principios de Agosto: Empecé el primer boceto del Essay
que terminó siendo el que mandé.

Principios de Agosto: El 1ro Abre Common App, completar info básica.

Mediados-Fines de Agosto: rendí TOEFL

Agosto-Septiembre: escribirle a mis recomenders para pedirles si me
hacen recommendation letters.

Septiembre-Octubre: preparé mi app a EDs y EAs, lo que consistió en
conseguir todos los docs de Finaid (los reutilizas para todas las unis),
armar essays, conseguir recommendation letters, etc. LLeva bastante todo
esto y muchas partes del proceso se hacen tediosas porque necesitas
cosas que no dependen de vos (como recommendations o bank statements).

Noviembre: Mandé mis EDs y EAs. Empecé mis Essays de RD.

Diciembre: Seguí los Essays hasta entrar a la ED. Hice withdraw a mis
EA.

Recomendaciones

Una vez que te sacas de encima los examenes tenes un peso enorme que se
va. Yo terminé de rendir TOEFL para casi Septiembre y en esas épocas me
quería preocupar más por mis essays que por estudiar inglés. Mientras
antes te los puedas sacar de encima mejor supongo.

Estar en contacto / demostrar interés

Muchas universidades lo tienen en cuenta, otras no tanto, pero siempre
está bueno tener en cuenta si a las universidades de tu lista les
importa el demonstrated interest.

¿Cómo se suma demonstrated interest? Hay muchas formas, y más aún para
nosotros estando en pandemia:

1.  Mandar mails. Mientras que tu mail tenga alguna pregunta
    relevante—que no sea ¿Cuál es el class size de NYU? ¿Tienen research
    opportunities para undergrads en MIT?—está perfecto. No tengan miedo
    de mandar muchos incluso a algún departamento de la universidad (yo
    nunca hice esto- Anto).

2.  Visitar el campus. A veces se complica viajar a USA para ver los
    campus de las unis, pero en pandemia surgió una solución: recorridos
    virtuales. No están mal, te dejan ver una vista 360 del campus y ver
    fotos y videos copados. Pero además, muchas veces al abrir estas
    visitas te pide loggearte por lo que dejas tu mail asociado con la
    uni ahí y ellos capaz capaz se enteran que fuiste.

3.  Charlas/Webinars. Para mi esto fue una de las mejores cosas de
    aplicar en pandemia los webinars. Desde Marzo/Abril hasta Diciembre
    todas las universidades ofrecen webinars de todos los temas. Hay
    muchos de varias universidades en conjunto (los super recomiendo
    para conocer nuevas universidades), algunos de universidades por sí
    solas dando tips generales (JHU da muchos webinars de cómo escribir
    essays o cosas de aplicar en general que a veces sirven más para
    otras unis que JHU) y después las típicas info sessions en las que
    te dicen donde queda la uni, que research opp tienen, cuantos
    alumnos hay, etc.

4.  Hablar con tu admissions officer. Este es MI MEJOR CONSEJO para los
    que apliquen afuera. Una vez de casualidad me noté a un webinar de
    JHU que se llamaba “Ask an Admissions Committee Member
    (International)”. Me uní y resulta que eramos 5 latinas en un zoom
    convencional (no esos tipo webinar que no podes hablar ni poner
    cámara) hablando directamente con el admissions officer para todo
    latinoamérica. Yo ese día venía de un evento del colegio así que mi
    zoom background tenía el nombre de la escuela. Entonces de la nada
    en medio del webinar, yo le pregunté algo al AO y me responde: yo
    conozco tu escuela… En fin, interactué cara a cara con el AO y él
    reconoció mi escuela, algo que después iba a ver en mi application
    entonces hay muchas chances de que se fuera a acordar de mi.
    Conclusión, siempre que puedan intenten anotarse a muchos webinars y
    eventos porque nunca saben que van a sacar de ahí. Y aunque tal vez
    el haber conocido al AO que me aceptó a la universidad no sumó a mi
    acceptance porque hay muchas variables, después de poder hablarle y
    darle ese toque humano a mi App yo me sentí mucho más confiada con
    JHU.

Financial Aid

Investigar universidades y armar una lista

Para empezar a investigar universidades recomendamos que entren a una de
las páginas donde se encuentran los rankings. No se guíen SOLO por los
rankings sino usen los distintos filtros para sus intereses.
ACLARACIÓN IMPORTANTE: Si aplican buscando financial aid y no tienen
ciudadanía americana busquen “[NombreDeUniversidad] International
Students Financial Aid” y fijense el tipo de beca que existe de la
universidad que quieran así no pierden tiempo investigando universidades
a las que no van a poder ir me pasó con las UC :’(.

Demonstrated Interest: Hay universidades que registran las interacciones
que tienen con ellas (Mandar mails, ir a eventos, conversar con faculty,
etc) y utilizan esos datos como demonstrated interest. Si bien esto es
bueno para demostrarle su interés en la universidad, definitivamente no
tiene que ser donde pongan la mayor parte de su energía.

Nota de Anto: fui a TODOS los eventos de JHU para después enterarme que
no tenían demonstrated interest, pero quedé igual, así que al menos para
ellos no es un factor determinante.

Resources para armar la lista

-   Niche: buena página para ver rankings, info básica y aprender de la
    universidad cuando no leíste nada de ella.

-   Ir a webinars. Hay muchos que son de varias universidades juntas o
    sino simplemente por separado (suelen empezar en marzo y van todo el
    año hasta enviar tus applications). Es una buena forma de aprender
    toda la info básica y sacarte dudas.

-   Visitar la web. Explorar las cosas que ofrece una universidad en tu
    field of study es el paso siguiente para decidir si dejarla en la
    lista. Explorá extracurriculars.

-   Investigar financial aid: hay muy pocas universidades que son “Need
    Blind” aka ignoran cuánto podes pagar a la hora de aceptarte. Esas
    son: Columbia, Harvard, MIT, Princeton y Amherst. El resto van a
    tener en cuenta cuánto podes pagar ya que tienen un budget más
    limitado de finaid. Que eso no limite el que vayas a aplicar o no ya
    que solo quiere decir que menos personas reciben beca.

Armar una lista:

Para empezar, es MUY útil tener un excel con diferentes columnas estilo:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Uni     deadlines   Acceptance   Major   Ranking in my Acceptance   Fin aid research
  name                rate                 field         rate                 
  ------- ----------- ------------ ------- ------------- ------------ ------- ----------
                                                                              

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Las categorías en negro son las que se suelen incluir y las verdes son
algunas que yo puse en mi lista porque son cosas que me parecían muy
importantes a la hora de agregar una a mi lista. Tal vez a otro no le
importa tanto research pero si study abroad, sports u otra cosa.

Ahora, ¿cómo elegimos las unis?

Como quedar en una Ivy League / similar es muy difícil, cuando armamos
una lista es importante la variedad. Obvio que eso depende de cada
uno—sus preferencias y sus stats (incluyendo fin aid)—pero en general
suele ser la mejor alternativa para aumentar tus chances de quedar en
una universidad de USA.

Podemos dividir las unis en 3 categorías muy usadas en USA:

Reach <10%: MUY bajo acceptance rate (MIT, Stanford, Ivy League). MUY
pocos entran.

Target <40%: Medium acceptance rate. En teoría la mayoría de tus
universidades deberían ser así, o eso te recomiendan muchos advisors.

Safety >40%: Medium/high acceptance rate. Ya estás con un pie adentro
por tus stats.

Por fuera de eso, está bien apuntar alto y aplicar a tus universidades
soñadas, además de que si necesitas financial aid o una beca completa,
las universidades Reach son las que más dan para internationals (de las
safeties tene cuidado porque pocas dan). Ahora, como ya dijimos siempre
es bueno tener alguna safety/target que te guste en la lista.

Por último, hablemos de la cantidad. La cantidad de unis a las que
apliques puede depender de lo financiero (más adelante lo discutimos),
pero más que nada va a depender de tu tiempo. Para aplicar a cada
universidad como ya discutimos, vas a tener que preparar essays y tal
vez conseguir documentos específicos, lo que lleva mucho tiempo. Es así
que es muy difícil aplicar a 20 universidades (además de que el límite
de Common App es 20) y a veces es mejor aplicar a algunas menos y
concentrarse en subir ensayos de mejor calidad o más pulidos.

Essays

Parece ser que con el tiempo la sección que va ganando más y más
importancia es la de los Essays: el momento en el cual dejás de enlistar
todas tus notas, puntajes, exámenes, actividades y eso, y realmente
comenzas a hablar sobre quién sos, cuáles son tus pasiones, y por qué
querés asistir a X universidad para concretar esas aspiraciones. Si
nunca escribiste un ensayo antes te va a costar un poco comenzar a hacer
introspección.

Básicamente tenés que “responder” una pregunta en cierta cantidad de
palabras.

Personal Statement

El personal statement es solo uno y tiene una extensión de 650 palabras.
Lo vas a encontrar en la sección Writing de tu Common App. Tiene que ser
el ensayo en el que más resaltes quien sos. Podés hablar de lo que
quieras siempre y cuando les muestres tu perfil/personalidad/”esencia”.
Vos tenés que darle tu ensayo a quien sea y esa persona te tiene que
decir “uhhh este ensayo es re koren” (no todos los personal statements
tienen que ser de mí pero si lo son lo agradezco).

Supplemental Essays

Algunos ejemplos y recomendaciones:

a.  Please share with us why you consider Duke a good match for you. Is
    there something in particular about Duke’s academic or other
    offerings that attracts you? 200 word limit (Duke University ‘25)

Este tipo de pregunta la podemos considerar como “Why this college?”.
¿Que te motiva a aplicar a esa universidad? ¿Qué programa? ¿Que clases?
¿Que profesor?
Tal vez ya hiciste investigación sobre políticas ambientales y la
Nicholas School of the Environment te vuelve locx y es el lugar perfecto
para seguir investigando sobre los efectos de la industria alimenticia,
ni idea. O tal vez te gusta un programa de verano específico que ellos
tienen. Es muy personal y quedarse en cosas simples como “Duke has a
very good science school” creo que sería contraproducente incluso.

Nota de Koren: Man la nicholas school of the environment es un flash, me
encanta.

b.  Tell us about the most significant challenge you've faced or
    something that didn't go according to plan. How did you manage the
    situation?
    250 word limit (MIT ‘25)

Introspección es la palabra clave para pensar en que responder. Muchas
veces podemos estar tentados de decir que el desafío más grande fue
cierta olimpiada donde finalmente ganaste una medalla de oro pero,
¿realmente fue ese el desafío más grande de tus últimos 17-18 años?
Muchas veces pensamos que la otra persona quiere escuchar los méritos
más grandes posibles. Yo (koren) cometí el error de hablar más de un
proyecto que de mí y de que pasaba por mi cabeza.

c.  Rice is lauded for creating a collaborative atmosphere that enhances
    the quality of life for all members of our campus community. The
    Residential College System and undergraduate life are heavily
    influenced by the unique life experiences and cultural tradition
    each student brings. What life perspectives would you contribute to
    the Rice community?
    500 word limit (Rice University ‘25)

Recursos

-   Grammarly (Grammarly premium compartido con otros applicants es una
    buena alternativa).

-   Buscá “Collegevine ____ Supplementals”. El sitio, acá te dejo un
    ejemplo, tiene muy buenos approaches a los Supplemental essays de la
    mayoría de las unis en tu lista.

-   Algunas unis tienen webinars sobre como escribir supplementals, JHU
    ofrece uno que habla en general y sobre como ven ellos sus propios
    supplementals.

-   Creativo pero no quirky forzado: “Toda mi vida quise ser un
    cangrejo.”

-   No white savior: “Hice trabajo comunitario en [x lugar] y ver esa
    situación me cambió para siempre.”

-   No hacer essays estereotipados: “A todos los chicos les gusta el
    fútbol pero yo… yo soy gamer.”

Extracurriculares, concursos y becas

Un paso muy importante al aplicar es seguir metiendole a tus
Extracurriculares (ECs) todo tu senior year y buscando nuevas. A mi
(Anto) me pasó mucho que sumé varios Honors (premios) en mi último año,
junto a varias ECs. Capaz eso no hubiera determinado mi admission pero
todo suma y muy probablemente no esté bueno que cuando miren tus ECs
todas lleguen hasta 11th grade, de la misma manera que no está bueno que
todas tus ECs sean de 12th grade.

Ejemplos de cosas a tener en cuenta en tu último año:

Beca del Balseiro para una monografía de ciencia

Desarrollar un proyecto personal o ampliar uno que ya tengas

Olimpiadas varias

Hackathones

Ahora hablemos de becas. EducationUSA y la embajada ofrecen programas
para ayudar con los costos de aplicar (Opportunity Funds), viajes como
embajadores a USA (Jóvenes Embajadores), etc.

Finalmente lo que todos esperaban: la lista de ECs en CommonApp. En
CommonApp podes hablar de 10 extracurriculars y dar una corta
descripción de ellas en 150 caracteres. Luego tenes que agregar por
cuantos años la hiciste, cuál fue tu roll ahí, etc. Son muy pocas
palabras para algo que seguro requiere muchas, por eso darle bola a esta
sección es tan importante.

Primero hablemos de cómo seleccionar tus ECs. Nuestros tips para armar
esta lista son:

1.  Diversidad. No está bueno que todas tus ECs sean Olimpiadas o que
    todas sean voluntariado. Está bueno mostrar una diversidad, incluso
    en varios fields, pero aún así con un enfoque en tu field of study.
    Con esto me refiero a que si vas a estudiar STEM que tus ECs no sean
    todas de Olimpiadas, research y competencias científicas. Agrega tus
    intereses en arte, en humanities, ese modelo de ONU que hiciste, o
    el lenguaje que aprendes fuera de clase.

2.  Las importantes van en el Top 5. A veces las universidades solo leen
    las primeras ECs así que lo más importante es ponerlas en orden para
    que lean las más importantes.

3.  Que sean cuantificables. Siempre que puedas en la descripción poné a
    cuanta gente ayudaste, en que puesto saliste sobre tantos, cuantas
    descargas tiene tu aplicación. Eso suma mucho para ver el impacto de
    la actividad no solo en vos mismo sino en otros.

4.  Anota actividades que de verdad te interesen o hayas hecho por un
    tiempo. No está tan bueno poner en ECs un solo concurso que ganaste
    o una actividad cortita que no te impactó mucho. Lo mismo pero en el
    otro extremo, si tocas guitarra hace 5 años podes agregarlo ya que
    probablemente es algo a lo que dedicaste mucho tiempo y te gusta
    hacer. No todo tiene que ser supe académico.

5.  Agrupá. Si por esas casualidades tenés muchas actividades
    parecidas—participaste de una olimpiada de un tema en diferentes
    torneos, haces varios deportes similares, diste charlas en muchos
    lugares distintos—podés agruparlas en una categoría. Capaz no vas a
    poder expandir en los 3 viajes de estudios que metiste en una sola
    categoría por el límite de palabras pero agrupar es una buena opción
    para sumar diversidad y no copiar varios slots con una actividad muy
    parecida.

Yyy por ahora eso es todo. Armar la lista de ECs es difícil pero se
puede. Si no se te ocurren cosas, algunos buenos métodos son sentarte a
escribir tu CV o cualquier actividad o premio que hiciste/recibiste en
el secundario para después ver qué de la lista te gustaría dejar.

Costos de aplicar

Exámenes y enviarlos

Rendir el SAT en latinoamérica sale usd$100, el TOEFL usd$200 y el
Duolingo usd$60.

Por sobre eso, muchas universidades te piden que les envies los
resultados de forma “oficial”, es decir, desde los sitios de las
empresas que llevan a cabo el examen. Enviar el SAT cuesta unos usd$12,
TOEFL usd$20 y el Duolingo usd$0.

Inevitablemente los costos de los exámenes hay que pagarlos, pero muchas
universidades tienen la opción de “self-report”, o enviarlos de forma
oficial. Aunque no veas esta opción en el sitio web, podes enviar un
mail preguntando si la ofrecen mientras les contas la situación del país
y del dólar.

Application Fees

Varían según la universidad. La mayoría de las universidades cuestan
entre USD$40 y USD$80. Si vamos sumando 8, 10, 12 universidades termina
costando como 800 dólares pero, por suerte y como mencionamos antes, el
estudiante y su counselor pueden pedir un Common App Fee Waiver cuyo
propósito es explícitamente quitar este costo. Desde tu parte de common
app elegis el fee waiver que habla sobre tu coordinador y listo. Después
de eso tu coordinador tiene que aceptar el fee waiver desde su lado de
common app. Si alguna universidad por alguna razón no acepta este waiver
les mandas un mail para pedir otro o para preguntarles si aceptan el de
CommonApp.

Documentos: enviarlos y traducirlos

La universidad te va a pedir que mandes una serie de documentos a través
de servicios como “IDOCS” (de College Board) si aplicas a financial aid,
pero además te van a pedir que subas algunos a tu CommonApp. Ambos tipos
de documentos tienen que estar traducidos y es recomendado que sea por
un traductor oficial, lo cual puede tener un costo.

Financial aid: sale plata pedirla

Enviar el CSS por primera vez sale usd$25 y las subsecuentes veces
usd$16. De todas formas podes enviar el ISFAA a las universidades que lo
acepten sin gastar plata.

Programas de USA para Seniors

Siempre está bueno saber que programas ofrecen las universidades para
high school seniors, tanto para conocerlas más como para sumar chances o
tener contacto directo con profesores o admissions officers. Acá hay
algunos ejemplos de programas: (tener en cuenta que esto fue hecho en un
año donde todos los programas fueron virtuales y sin viaje ni costos)

-   

-   Barnard Bound

-   Caltech up close

-   Columbia Engineering Experience

-   Dartmouth Bound: Summer Program | Dartmouth Admissions

Recomendaciones finales

-   Es un proceso difícil, no seas tan duro con vos mismo

-   Dedicale tiempo pero deja tiempo para vos.

-   Aprende a mandar muchos mails, eso te va a servir mientras aplicas y
    cuando estés en la universidad.

-   Dedicale a tus extracurriculars. No dejes de hacer lo que te gusta
    por aplicar. Tus ECs no solo van a sumar en tu application, sino que
    también hay que darse recreos a uno mismo haciendo lo que te gusta.

-   Se honesto.


To whom it may concern,

It is a great pleasure to recommend Iñaki Arango. Over the 6 years that
I knew him as his teacher and as the head of Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) studies at ORT Belgrano High School in
Buenos Aires, I watched him grow from a shy and quiet student into an
outgoing and confident young man. He was not only one of our sharpest
students but also one of our most committed– to his projects, to his
teams, to the school, and to his friends.

Iñaki’s enthusiasm for technology and innovation was palpable from the
moment I met him when he first visited the school with his father and I
showed him some of the projects our students were working on. Then, on
his very first day of school, he took himself up to the ICT floor to see
what we were doing. He showed such genuine interest in our projects that
even though he was a first-year student, we invited him to join our LEGO
Robotics Competition team. He demonstrated a mature ability to both
adapt to his team and to collaborate with students much older than he.
The following year, we invited him to our year-long mini-submarines
workshop, and thanks to his patient persistence, the team he led was the
only one that managed to complete its submarine by the end of the
workshop.

We were very proud to have Iñaki represent our school in various
national and international Olympiads, as he earned a bronze medal at the
national level in the Biology Olympiad, a gold medal at the national
level in the Science Olympiad, a bronze medal at the international level
in the Science Olympiad, as well as a silver medal at the national level
in the IT Olympiad. In spite of the time he dedicated to preparing for
and participating in the competitions, he always maintained his
excellent academic performance: he consistently was one of the top 5 in
his class and, in fact, held the highest GPA his last two years.

For his academic performance, he was also chosen for the first group of
students that worked on a project sponsored by Satellogic, an
Argentine/US satellite company, for which they developed an application
to integrate infrared and visible light images. Iñaki worked well with 3
other teammates in the development of the software. He also took charge
of interfacing with Satellogic and defining project requirements and
timelines. Thanks to his leadership and the group’s collaboration, his
team was rewarded with a trip to Satellogic’s factory in Uruguay to
discuss the software with its engineers.

Beyond his academic achievements, Iñaki also became an integral member
of our school community. In addition to volunteering during lunch to
help students who had fallen behind, he organized and led Science and IT
Olympiad study groups where he coached younger students who found his
explanations easier to understand than those of some teachers and his
approach very fun. Because he both cared about the curriculum and was
also willing to question established norms, Iñaki was proactive about
suggesting changes so that our college-level material would be more
understandable for high school students. Trusting his judgment, we also
decided to introduce parts of a new course he designed, Architectures of
Web Applications, into another course: Emerging Technologies. Finally,
in his last year he applied for and was selected to be a project manager
for student-initiated projects, and the teams that requested Iñaki as
their project manager worked on projects ranging from a blockchain
business solution to a navigation app to assist people with
disabilities. His capacity to network and to clearly and convincingly
convey ideas proved very useful in acquiring clients and forging
connections that boosted the popularity and reach of the projects he
managed.

Iñaki developed as a student, as an innovator, and as a leader during
his six years at ORT. He won the respect and trust of his peers and the
faculty, not only for his vast skill and knowledge but also because he
was such a pleasure to interact with. I believe the REU in Data Science
program will be fortunate to have Iñaki as a participant, and I offer my
wholehearted endorsement of his application.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you require further
information about Iñaki.

Best regards,

Darío Mischener

Head of the ICT Track

ORT Belgrano High School

Transcript Starts Below

The full recommendation letter is attached together with the transcript.
The following is a summary: We were very proud to have Iñaki represent
our school in various national and international Olympiads, and in spite
of the time he dedicated to preparing for and participating in the
competitions, he always maintained his excellent academic performance:
he consistently was one of the top 5 in his class and, in fact, held the
highest GPA his last two years.

For his academic performance, he was also chosen for the first group of
students that worked on a project sponsored by Satellogic, an
Argentine/US satellite company, for which they developed an application
to integrate infrared and visible light images. Iñaki worked well with 3
other teammates in the development of the software. He also took charge
of interfacing with Satellogic and defining project requirements and
timelines. Thanks to his leadership and the group’s collaboration, his
team was rewarded with a trip to Satellogic’s factory in Uruguay to
discuss the software with its engineers.

Beyond his academic achievements, Iñaki also became an integral member
of our school community. In addition to volunteering during lunch to
help students who had fallen behind, he organized and led Science and IT
Olympiad study groups where he coached younger students who found his
explanations easier to understand than those of some teachers and his
approach very fun. Because he both cared about the curriculum and was
also willing to question established norms, Iñaki was proactive about
suggesting changes so that our college-level material would be more
understandable for high school students. Trusting his judgment, we also
decided to introduce parts of a new course he designed, Architectures of
Web Applications, into another course: Emerging Technologies. Finally,
in his last year he applied for and was selected to be a project manager
for student-initiated projects, and the teams that requested Iñaki as
their project manager worked on projects ranging from a blockchain
business solution to a navigation app to assist people with
disabilities. His capacity to network and to clearly and convincingly
convey ideas proved very useful in acquiring clients and forging
connections that boosted the popularity and reach of the projects he
managed.


“Those components are dangerous. Are you sure those are the right
parts?” a man next to me in line asked me while at an electronics store.
I was a pretty confident 11-year-old, and I explained to him that I had
watched a video about Tesla Coils online and wanted to try making one.

He turned out to be an electronics professor at the University of Buenos
Aires and encouraged me to explore Arduino to expand my electronics
horizon. Excited, I ran back home and typed “Arduino” into Google. I
learned about microcontrollers and how you could “teach” a device what
to do through coding. I had never heard of coding before. The fact that
you could build things that transcended the physical world made me feel
like I had just discovered magic. Anything was possible.

I later moved from single-file projects in Arduino to more complex
project structures making Windows programs. My mind was suddenly opened
to how big and feature-rich software could become. My biggest project
was in collaboration with a senior citizen care facility: an app that
Parkinson’s patients could use to retain key information. I was a very
technically focused person at the time and that project taught me that I
should care more about the people and the problem than the technology.

From there I was thrilled to discover image processing, which opened a
new pathway for computers to share their analyses and conclusions in a
way humans could easily interpret. At the same time, working at
Satellogic, a satellite startup, opened my eyes to the business aspect
of technology. I had always thought of it as purely for fun or
solidarity, but I learned that technology could be applied to solve
business challenges.

In my last year of high school, yet another world opened up when I
started developing more complex architectures, like internet-connected
apps. It was the first time I thought of software as a tool for
collaboration since people could share their work and information
through these platforms. My skill set expanded to include project
management when I led a project aimed at solving the transportation
challenges of the visually impaired in Buenos Aires. It suddenly
clicked: a solution could be turned into its own business if organized
correctly. Thus, I was introduced to the realm of startups.

After finishing school the candy jar of blockchain and more esoteric
software, like Chrome extensions and command-line interfaces, treated me
with new ways in which software could solve problems, beyond the
traditional website or app. Helping a friend with his startup (and
eventually starting my own) taught me about the long and winding road of
the entrepreneurial journey, from the first idea, to first clients, to
obtaining funding to accelerate growth.

It was this journey that led me to realize that Computer Science is my
passion. I am generally curious, and this journey also allowed me to
explore so many different fields outside of CS and get to connect with
people from diverse backgrounds on a deeper level. That is why I love
computer science.


There is a breadth of intellectual opportunities here at Rice. Further
explain your intended major and other areas of academic focus you may
explore. (150 word limit)

At Rice, I want to focus on core computer science and bioinformatics.

In the past few years I have created several programs for fun and
profit, but its was through the development of a navigation app for the
blind community and a health reimbursement platform for people with
disabilities that I developed a passion for applying computer science to
health for the benefit of society. While designing health-related
applications I have been confronted with multiple accessibility, bias
and ethics issues and would like the opportunity to learn from Rice’s
substantial bioethics curricula.

Finally, as an entrepreneur I have been exposed to the difficulty of
turning an idea into a product and taking it to market. I intend to
pursue entrepreneurial projects at Rice and I look forward to taking
advantage of the workshops and mentorship offered by the Liu Idea Lab.

What aspects of the Rice undergraduate experience inspired you to apply?
(150 word limit)

I have two cousins who are currently seniors at Rice and have told me
many wonderful things about their experience. One that stands out to me
is the residential college system. I have grown a great deal from being
on a specialized track and with a cohort in my highschool and I look
forward to a tight-knit environment within which to form meaningful
relationships with students in all areas of study. Another aspect I am
looking forward to is the close relationships with faculty that Rice’s
small size encourages. I have benefited enormously from the mentorship
of my teachers in the past and hope to engage with professors at Rice in
similar ways. Finally, when visiting my cousins at Rice I was taken by
how their friends welcomed me and were, in fact, excited to meet a
prospective student.

Rice is lauded for creating a collaborative atmosphere that enhances the
quality of life for all members of our campus community. The Residential
College System is heavily influenced by the unique life experiences and
cultural traditions each student brings. What personal perspectives
would you contribute to life at Rice? (500 word limit)

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. When the doctor told me,
I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to wear a plastic
vest around my torso for many years.

The vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what it was. It made me feel different. I was
limited in a number of ways by it. If it was sunny, I couldn't play
outside because the heat would be unbearable. I couldn't do anything
that might cause me to fall because hitting the ground with the vest on
would hurt me considerably. Running, playing sports, and riding a bike
were completely out of the question. Moreover, every time I went through
airport security I got pulled aside and was asked to explain the vest.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day. As I learned to
live with it, this started happening less and less frequently.

Once I came to terms with the vest, time passed quickly, and a year ago,
due to my spine having stopped growing, I was able to take it off
permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having worn the
vest, not having something pressing on my chest felt liberating. I
started enjoying all the activities I had lost touch with again, but
after a while, I started experiencing strong back pain.

The doctor told me that it was caused by the lack of muscle supporting
my back, so I decided to join a gym for the first time. It has been a
whole year, and I have never stopped attending. I developed a love for
it because it allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I will never be able to get rid of.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but it also has its drawbacks. I
wouldn’t be able to exercise for a year, and would lose flexibility for
life. I have thought about it long and hard, and I believe it is worth
the sacrifice. It will allow me to go through my life without fear of
damaging my spine. I am proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


Typhoid Mary

1.  What are the three major points made in the paper?

    -   A researcher in the frist decade of the 1900s made the discovery
        of the first healthy carrier of Salmonella: Mary Mallon, an
        Irish immigrant. He published information about her and tried to
        perform follow up research and prove his theory by collecting
        her excrement, but was not successful in doing so.

    -   Eventually it became apparent that Mary was the cause of many
        infections around New York, so she was taken into custody.
        There, samples of excrement were taken, which proved that she
        was indeed a carrier for Salmonella. To prevent here from
        spreading the disease any more, she was sent to North Brother
        Island.

    -   The department of health never communicated with her directly
        and treated her as a laboratory pet, instead of as a fellow
        human, which could collaborate with them to solve the situation
        (more on this in 3.).

2.  What are the possible future directions of the study?

  This paper is not a study, but a summary of Typhoid Mary’s story, so
  there is not future direction of study.

3.  What could have been done better?

  This is not as much a recommendation for the authors of the paper as
  it is for the people belonging to the department of health in the
  story. As stated, Mary was never informed of the significance of being
  a “carrier”. She was just persecuted, taking into custody, and then
  offered to have her gallbladder removed.

  Patient-Doctor communication is extremely important, and even more so
  if a life-changing decision is on the table for the patient (like
  being encarcerated or undergoing surgery).

  They should have explained to “Mary” why she was a danger to the
  public and maybe then she would have voluntarily had her gallbladder
  removed.

Swedish Twins and Smoking

1.  What are the three major points made in the paper?

    -   A study was performed on male-male and female-female pairs of
        monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) twins from Sweden born
        between 1890 and 1958, raised together and appart, to figure out
        if there was a correlation between genetic and environmental
        factors, and the risk of regular tobacco usage (RTU).

    -   Since monozygotic twins spend more time together than dizygotic
        twins, the share more peer groups. Tobacco is usually adopted
        because an introduction within a friend group during a kids
        teenage years. Because MZ twins share more friends, it is likely
        that if one is exposed to tobacco, the other one will too. This
        might overestimate then the heridetability of RTU, since itl
        will increase the correlation between one twin smoking and the
        other one smoking, even though it is due to social factors and
        not genetic ones.

    -   With this study it was proven that the twins that have grown
        together compared to the ones that have grow apart have a
        similar vulnerability to RTU. This means the potential issue
        brought up in the previous paragraph is not a significant issue
        in these types of studies.

2.  What are the possible future directions of the study?

    -   Since it has been proven that vulnerability to RTU is genetic,
        in the future studies could be performed to “identify the
        specific loci and alleles that that influence these
        vulnerabilities”.

3.  What could have been done better?

    -   They could try to find a big group of twins from a more diverse
        geographical area, and whose date of separation whas more or
        less the same, both of which did not occur in this paper.

    -   The study relied on self-reported measures of tobacco used. They
        could have used medical records perhaps, which are more
        accurate, although that my subject them to selection bias for
        the participants in the study.

NEJM Obesity Myths

1.  What are the three major points made in the paper?

    -   False and/or unsustantiated beliefs around weight loss/gain are
        widely promulgated online.

    -   There are the myths (held as true even though they have been
        proven false):

        -   “Small sustained changes in energy intake or expenditure
            will produce large, long-term weight changes”

        -   “Setting realistic goals in obesity treatment is important
            because otherwise patients will become frustrated and lose
            less weight”

        -   Large, rapid weight loss is associated with poorer long-term
            weight outcomes than is slow, gradual weight loss

        -   Assessing the stage of change or diet readiness is important
            in helping patients who seek weight-loss treatment

        -   Physical-education classes in their current format play an
            important role in preventing or reducing childhood obesity

        -   Breast-feeding is protective against obesity

        -   A bout of sexual activity burns 100 to 300 kcal for each
            person involved

    -   Presumptions (commonly shared even though they are unproved):

        -   Regularly eating (vs. skipping) breakfast is protective
            against obesity

        -   Early childhood is the period during which we learn exercise
            and eating habits that influence our weight throughout life

        -   Eating more fruits and vegetables will result in weight loss
            or less weight gain, regardless of whether one intentionally
            makes any other behavioral or environmental changes

        -   Weight cycling (i.e., yo-yo dieting) is associated with
            increased mortality

        -   Snacking contributes to weight gain and obesity

        -   The built environment, in terms of sidewalk and park
            availability, influences obesity

    -   Facts (held as true because there is sufficient evidence):

        -   Although genetic factors play a large role, heritability is
            not destiny; calculations show that moderate environmental
            changes can promote as much weight loss as the most
            efficacious pharmaceutical agents available

        -   Diets (i.e., reduced energy intake) very effectively reduce
            weight, but trying to go on a diet or recommending that
            someone go on a diet generally does not work well in the
            long-term

        -   Regardless of body weight or weight loss, an increased level
            of exercise increases health

        -   Physical activity or exercise in a sufficient dose aids in
            long-term weight maintenance

        -   Continuation of conditions that promote weight loss promotes
            maintenance of lower weight

        -   For overweight children, programs that involve the parents
            and the home setting promote greater weight loss or
            maintenance

        -   Provision of meals and use of meal-replacement products
            promote greater weight loss

        -   Some pharmaceutical agents can help patients achieve
            clinically meaningful weight loss and maintain the reduction
            as long as the agents continue to be used

        -   In appropriate patients, bariatric surgery results in
            long-term weight loss and reductions in the rate of incident
            diabetes and mortality

        -   

2.  What are the possible future directions of the study?

  Given that there is a lot of misinformation out there, it should be a
  priority for th enational health institutes around the world to
  compile in an easy to understand and compact manner, all the basic
  information that people need to know about dieting and exercise. These
  websites should be optimized to be placed at the top of Google Search
  so that people find those first instead of th erroneous resources.

3.  What could have been done better?

  The study could have been more explicit on what website this
  information was mostly found on. There is always going to be bad
  information online, but the paper would be a lot more relevant if more
  quantitative data was given on how many wrong sites are out there.
  More data should also have been given on the actual sources. It would
  be especially worrying if this wrong information came out of official
  government websites.


Dietary Cholesterol and Cardiovascular Risk

The study analyzes the effect that diets have on our cholesterol levels,
and how much diet recommendations (which is different from people
following a specific diet) affect our cholesterol levels. It concludes
that while there are exists food that are bad for our cholesterol (i.e.,
they increase it substantially), we don’t have to specifically address
their consumption because the standard healthy diets in America already
have a balanced amount of non-cholesterol-high foods. Because of this it
is not worth it emphasizing that one should also take specific care of
cholesterol when following a generally healthy diets. The study does
remark however that if one follows a specific type of diet, such as
vegetarian, the lack of certain high-cholesterol foods allow us to eat
more of other types of food that are high in cholesterol.

Soda industry infuence on obesity science and policy in China

The paper analyzes the influence that public consumer product
conglomerates have on China’s health policies. It compares the effect it
had in China with the US and other countries were corporations are
prominante in shaping the political landscape.

The paper shows how in the last two decades the focus of efforts to
decrease obesity have shifted from diets to physical activity, which is
highly likely to have been influenced by companies (such as Coca Cola)
that want people to believe that it is what they do, and not what they
eat, that determines their health.

It is important to control the spread of these companies’ messaging to
identify organizations such as ILSI-China that show themselves as NGOs
looking to help solve the current epidemic but are actually covert
lobbying and marketing tools that represent the interest of these
corporations.

We need to push for more expert-backed policy moves, such as China’s
2016 dietary guidelines, while being wary of companies, such as PepsiCo,
that try to influence the associated public education campaigns.


Module 14: Brownell NEJM

-   Trans fats exist only in small amounts natural foods. Almost all
    current trans fats have been artifically added by manufacturers
    because it benefits them comercially. Adding trans fats:

    -   Increases shelf life

    -   Provides more stability during deep frying

    -   Increases palatbility

-   “The primary dietary source of artificial trans fat is partially
    hydrogenated oils, created by adding hydrogen to vegetable oils.”

-   There is a US-wide movement towards the full ban of artificial trans
    fats in food, that began by allowing and increasingly smaller
    maximum of added trans fats in comerciallized food.

    -   The FDA first addressed trans fats by requiring the disclosure
        of the trans-fat content of food on nutrition labels beginning
        in 2006.

    -   The FDA wants to remove the “generally recognized as safe”
        (GRAS) label from partially hydrogenated oils, requiring product
        manufacturers to get approval from the FDA before marketing any
        product that contains these oils.

    -   These regulations could act as precedent for removing the GRAS
        label from more common added ingredients, such as sugar and
        caffeine (below a certain limit).

Module 15: Lancet exercise vs TV

-   Sedentary activity has long been associated with increased risk of
    “several chronic conditions and mortality”. It is unclear whether
    physical activity causes no impact, attenuates this risk or outright
    eliminates it.

-   This study performs a meta-analysis of multiple studies from many
    different databases and tries to conclude whether physical activity
    indeed reduces the risk associated with sedentary activity or not.

-   The studies show that long time (> 3 hr/day) spent sitting, watching
    TV or other passive activities significantly increases risk of
    mortality, regardless of physical activity, unless the individual
    was in the top quartile of physical activity, in which case, that
    activity seem to offset all the negative consequences of
    sedentarism.


Module 18: JACC Air Pollution 2018 Review

-   Environmental polution is the largest cause of premature reversible
    death and disability in the world today. The study goes over the
    evidence that supports the connection between air pollution with
    cardiometabolic disease.

-   Household air pollutions is mostly a problem in low-middle income
    countries and it typically implies levels of air pollution inside
    that are orders of magnitude worse than the outside envirnoment in
    that region.

-   The evidence demonstrates that there is no lower concentration
    thresholld below which exposures can be considered safe at the
    population level. Even low levels of pollution within annual
    targets, faced by hundreds of millions of people pose significant
    threats to public health and cardiovascular events.

-   Evidence supports that more than one-half of deaths attributable to
    air pollutants are due to CV causes.

Module 19: Scientific American Aging Cells

-   Aging is rooted in the way we eat. Chemical pathways have been found
    in simpler organisms that activate when food is scarce. If we were
    somehow able to enable these through drugs instead of through
    dieting, then we could obtain the same benefits without starving.

-   One of these pathways is regulated by the mTOR enzyme. It signals to
    the cells whether there is “enough” food available or not. When
    there is not enough nutrients available in the body mTOR is present
    in lower quantities.

    -   When mTOR is present, the cells continue producingnew proteins,
        growing and dividing.

    -   When mTOR is inhibited, the cells goes into "efficient mode". It
        recycles old proteins to make new ones, ramps up "cellular
        cleaning and repair" mechanisms, and waits until the presence of
        mTOR before continuing with it's usual activity.

-   Drugs such as rapamycin are believed to prolong our lives because
    they inhibit key enzymes related to our metabolism, such as mTOR,
    and produce the same metabolic effect in our bodies as fasting, but
    without having to starve.

-   As we live longer it is also important that we lead healthier lives.
    Drugs like metaformin show promise in that area. Metaformin was
    approved by the UK’s drug commision in the 1950s to treat Type 2
    Diabetes, but because of its widespread use around the world,
    scientists have noticed patterns in the part of the population that
    consumers metaformin. They tend to have lower risks of cancer and
    better cardiovascular health.

-   In the future, a pill that combines all of these “positive” drugs
    that extend our lifespan and make us healthier throughout it, could
    be common place in everyone’s daily medicine drawer.


Module 20: The Big Answer

-   In current society our leaders propose small changes to try and
    improve healthcare, such as improving insurance coverage for
    vlnerable populations, electronic medical records, and wider access
    to generic drugs, but these are likely to small to fix our problem.

-   Healthcare prices are rising at an alarming pace and that is having
    a myriad of unwanted consequences: companies laying off implies to
    offset increasing healthcare costs, governments cutting insurance
    benefits, etc. Ultimately all of these changes put more pressure on
    the individual’s financial situation. Even with insurance some
    people are having trouble paying their bills.

-   It is now more important than ever to do anything because it will
    soon become a problem not only to the people, but to big business
    and the government. Some of the things we could do include:

    -   Eliminating geographic variation in the utilization of services

    -   Institute a single-payer system

    -   Address social determinants of health, such as poverty and gaps
        in education

-   Fortunately some in government have proposed a shift in focus from a
    healthcare system focused on disease treatment and management to one
    based upon the promotion of healthy lifestyles and the provention of
    chronic disease. Unfortunately, however, they have not received
    widespread support, and in some cases some governments have opted
    for reducing the funding that goes towards health promotion
    initiatives.


Daro

I’ve known him for 6 years and I have been his Director of Studies for
the past 3 years. He is one of the only students that I’ve met since
before they joined the track.

Común

Creativity, Proactive.

Específicas

Resourcefulness, Innovation, Entrepreneurship.

Mariano

I was his coach for the National Mathematics Olympiad six years ago, and
I am his senior-year math teacher.

Común

Específicas

Intelligent, Problem solver.

Andrés - Ex-profesor

Común

Knowledge, Problem solver.

Específicas

Quick learner, Teamwork, Adaptability.

José - Empleador

Común

Proactive.

Específicas

Leadership, Knowledgeable, Accountable.


-   What patents do you hold?

-   Is there any plan in place to prevent incumbents such as Kongsberg
    from implementing solar panels on their vehicles and implementing
    the same functionality you have?

-   Kongsberg, ECA Group and the other competitors offer training and
    operational services. Is there a plan for you to offer them or does
    everything work autonomously and through the cloud?

-   As explained by SCOR in their WG107 report, shallow water / EEZ
    bathymetry is the most important because it has the biggest impact
    on the neighboring countries. What benefit do you have over SDB
    companies such as EOMAP that use light to generate bathymetry data
    at shallow depths?

-   Do you autonomous vehicles have the possibility to attach
    instruments so that a certain task can be performed underwater?

-   Have you developed or planned to develop mission planning software?

-   How do you plan to recover vehicles stranded in the ocean?

-   Are you aware of public domain bathymetry datasets?

-   Have you started talks with potential customers?

-   What is your business model?

-   How do you plan to survive until the first datasets can begin to be
    sold?

-   Have you performed thorough market research?

-   How did you calculate your market size?


Background

Businesses will only adopt environmentally responsible practices if they
have the economic incentives to do so. The global recycled plastics
market reached a value of USD 35.4 billion in 2018. It is further
projected to reach USD 50.5 billion by 2024, growing at a CAGR of 6.1%
during 2019-2024¹.

Problem

Eco friendly companies will need to include recycled materials in their
packaging within the next 10 years. However, firms are currently unable
to effectively collect used paper, plastic, glass and other reusable
materials for their packaging needs in an economically viable way.

We have met with several consumer product companies such as Unilever and
Nestlé, and validated our hypothesis about their need to find an
economically viable way of gathering used plastic packaging to be reused
in their products.

Offering

Recyco offers an integrated solution to collect recyclable materials,
classify them and return them to their respective processing plants for
re-use. We provide companies with fully managed stands in both public
and private areas. Initially, an operator will manually separate the
materials which are then shipped to their respective processing plants.
This operation would be similar to a reverse vending machine, but those
are unable to separate different types of materials, leading to
increased segregation costs during reverse logistics. We will start with
plastics and eventually add other reusable materials.

Recyco offers an app with a rewards system (best to open on mobile).
Consumers earn Recycoins for every recyclable turned in, which can then
be exchanged for discounts on products and services. Recyco’s platform
also includes a data analytics tool, to help the government and
businesses track product consumption data and trends. It also allows
companies to directly advertise certain products to users with specific
consumption patterns picked up by the app.

Market & Differentiation

The market for Recyco is relatively new; few companies are offering a
similar service in Latin America: Molécoola (Brazil), Plasticoin
(Uruguay) and Ecoin (Costa Rica, Perú, Panamá, Guatemala and El
Salvador) amongst others. None of these offer an analytics platform as
part of their solution. Besides not having an agreement with any company
yet, Plasticoin lacks a plan to scale beyond two stands they currently
have. Both them and Ecoin have a limited number of products and services
for which coins can be exchanged.

Molécoola is Recyco’s biggest competitor in the software space. They
also offer a technology that allows more coins to be awarded to certain
commercial brands of products, and also separate materials in situ in
their stands, but they do not handle any part of the logistics. Recyco’s
replaces the traditional process of transporting to a generic processing
plant → sorting → washing → shredding → identification and
classification with the streamlined process of transporting to a
specialized plant → washing → shredding.

Recyco is also the only one who is developing reverse vending machines,
which will allow gathering and separation of materials in a more cost
effective way in locations such as supermarkets or events, and targeted
advertising based on consumer consumption patterns.

Team

Our team consists of two people with complementary skills: Cristian
Marquez and myself. Cristian is an entrepreneur that specializes in
plastics recycling supply chain, and in industrial waste value-added
initiatives. His current companies include Hense, BCS Logística, Bilagun
and Finca El Legado. He has experience working with various
multinational corporations such as Cencosud, PepsiCo, Kimberly Clark and
Coca Cola. I graduated from ORT High School in Buenos Aires, with a
specialization in Information and Communication Technologies. I have
experience designing and developing several software platforms, at
places such as Satellogic (satellite monitoring) and Reindi (healthcare
document storage and processing using blockchain technology).

Final Analysis

First mover advantage is key and only one company will win in each
market because consumers will prefer to receive coins in one system to
concentrate their purchasing power. Knowledge and connections with local
recyclers and cooperatives will be vital to win in each market.

The best way to expand into large markets will be by doing corporate
deals with regional offices. As of now, Molécoola seems to be better
prepared to handle large amounts of stands or operate in a really big
area of coverage, such as Brazil. Recyco is the only company offering a
fully managed solution. It will be the service of choice for companies
that either do not want to hire staff to handle the logistics of the
reverse supply chain, or that do not need the plastic because they are
in a completely different industry and treat the stands as a
“contribution” towards an eco friendly environment. The employee
required to operate each stand will only be viable in those countries
where labor is inexpensive, thus Recyco’s material-separating reverse
vending machines will be required to enter more expensive markets.

Sources

1.  https://www.bharatbook.com/marketreports/recycled-plastics-market-global-industry-trends-share-size-growth-opportunity-and-forecast-2019-2024/1598793

2.  https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/04/business/plastic-recycling-bottle-bills.html


What are the strengths of your company? Feel free to describe market
demands that are addressed, any innovative market angles your company
has taken, any financial successes or potential, or any areas of team
technical expertise that can be leveraged in your product.

Market demand:

-   Companies do want to recycle and they are willing to spend money on
    it. Why are they drive to recycle? The answer is twofold.

    -   Many of them have worldwide ESG goals that are driving them to
        increase the amount of recycled content in their packaging and
        products. For example, Unilever has pledged to increase their
        11% recycled plastic per product to 25% by 2025.*

    -   The other reason is that countries all over the world are
        beginning to implement laws that levy a tax on companies that do
        not handle the full lifecycle of their products, from
        production, to collection, to recycling.

-   So what is the reason they don’t recycle as much as they could?

-   Currently, recycling trucks, if available in cities, collect all
    recyclables together, compress it and taking to a sorting center,
    where people, like we saw before in the pictures, have to separate
    it manually.

    -   This process reduces total volume collected, reduces worker
        safety, and increases costs.

Financial success metrics:

-   Together, we have finalized contracts with 9 companies across
    Argentina to run a pilot program during the next 18 months in
    partnership with the Argentinian University of Saint Louis.

-   We are partnering with them to collaborate with NGOs and work on
    accessible material that we can use to increase the public knowledge
    of how to recycle.

-   Our clients for this pilot include leading consumer product
    conglomerates such as Unilever, Nestle and P&G.

-   The total budget for the project, including communication, is more
    than a million dollars, around $700k of which are for the platform.
    This is for 18 months, so in terms of annualized returns this would
    represent just under half a million dollars in ARR for the Recyco
    Platform.

Regarding the team and expertise:

-   My partner Cristian is focused on the operations side of the
    business, He founded a recycling logistics company two decades ago
    which he has been operating ever since and has done consulting work
    for companies such as Coca Cola, Kimberly-Clark and Pepsico in
    recycling projects.

-   I am focused on the platform and the technology development. I am
    currently studying Computer Science and Statistics at Harvard.
    Before coming to college I worked as a software engineer at startups
    such as Satellogic and Rutd designing web-based platforms. In my two
    gap years before coming to college I worked in the Venture Capital
    industry as an associate.

-   This combination has been specially useful in the past since
    Cristian’s network has allowed us to get warm introductions to
    clients, speak to industry experts to validate ideas, and my
    networks have allowed us to access developer talent that gets behind
    our company goals and wants to join the company.

What are the weaknesses of your company?

I would say that the biggest weakness is that the company is a SaaS
business, which means differentiation is hard. Everything is software,
which cannot be patented, so with enough money anyone can replicate your
product.

What is the competitive landscape of the market that your product lands
in? Are there similar products to your own out there?

Potential competitors are companies like Greener.Bio, but they have
migrated to lower barrier to access markets, like that of online
marketplaces for collection services. There are no more current
competitors, at least in Argentina, that we could find.

How would you best describe your revenue potential? Feel free to refer
to past sales, new investments, etc.

[]

-   So what is the total market size of this problem, and how can we
    grow our customer base within this market?

-   We are currently targeting companies that have already allotted part
    of their budget to find innovative solutions to their PCR problems,
    but we’ve come to annual market sizes for Argentina and the US by
    using a bottoms up approach based on the number of tons recycled
    yearly and the price companies are willing to pay to track these.

-   To reach these customers we have found that going through industry
    associations is the most time and cost effective way of gaining new
    clients.

    -   We are typically referred to someone in the organization by one
        of our clients, who becomes a champion for our service within
        the association, and organizes for us to present to all the
        member companies.

    -   In this way we spend very little money and time, and we are able
        to get warm intros to multiple potential customers which tend to
        convert most of the time.

    -   These are upcoming associations which we may be partnering with,
        including the one for aerosol producers and the cosmetic
        industry.

-   To these clients we currently price our platform with a mixture of
    SaaS and variable pricing. We charge a fixed monthly fee and then on
    top of that we charge per ton of plastic collected. In the future we
    would like to migrate to a purely variable cost pricing model since
    having a lower barrier to entry opens up the door for smaller
    companies that may not afford to pay the monthly SaaS fee to be able
    to offset their production.

What are the next milestones / goals you have for the profitability and
success of your company?

Next milestone is to launch publicly in 5 cities. That will happen in
April. After that launching out materials marketplace business unit
would be the next milestone.

What questions do you currently have about your own company ––whether
financial, in terms of management, or structure, etc. –– that you would
personally seek to address before seeking to advance your company to the
next step or seek investment?

I would probably like to validate the UX of the product and the
incentives further. I am not sure that people will be willing to ask for
their recyclables to be picked up from their doorstep.


References

Crowley, M., Hassan, F., & Schmitt, E. (2020, January 3). U.S. strike in
Iraq kills Qassim Suleimani, commander of Iranian forces. The New York
Times. Retrieved April 14, 2022, from
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/02/world/middleeast/qassem-soleimani-iraq-iran-attack.html

American Red Cross. (n.d.). International Humanitarian Law and Human
Rights. Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
https://www.redcross.org/content/dam/redcross/atg/PDF_s/Family___Holocaust_Tracing/IHL_HumanRights.pdf

Majumdar Roy Choudhury, L., Aoun, A., Badawy, D., de Alburquerque
Bacardit, L. A., Marjane, Y., & Wilkinson, A. (2021, March 8). Final
report of the Panel of Experts on Libya established pursuant to Security
Council resolution 1973 (2011). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2F2021%2F229

Slijper, F. (2019). (rep.). Slipery Slope: The arms industry and
increasingly autonomous weapons. PAX for Peace. Retrieved April 13,
2022, from
https://paxforpeace.nl/media/download/pax-report-slippery-slope.pdf

  Statement of Palestine on behalf of the Group of 10. CCW GGE Meeting
  on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, UN audio files. (2021, September
  24). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from:
  https://conf.unog.ch/dr/public/61.0500/9393801E-E15D-4CA3-B154-401AA343ACB1_10h19/chunks/snippet_lEs62-44t70-24.mp3

Crunch time on Killer Robots. Human Rights Watch. (2021, December 1).
Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
https://www.hrw.org/news/2021/12/01/crunch-time-killer-robots

What is IHL? International Committee of the Red Cross. (2015, November
12). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
https://www.icrc.org/en/document/what-ihl

  International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Geneva Convention
  Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War (Fourth
  Geneva Convention), Additional Protocol 1, art. 1(2). (1949, 12
  August). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from:
  https://www.refworld.org/docid/3ae6b36d2.html

Cluster munition. Weapons Law Encyclopedia. (2013, November 30).
Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
http://www.weaponslaw.org/glossary/cluster-munition-definition

Geneva International Center for Humanitarian Demining. (2020). What are
Cluster Munitions? Retrieved April 13, 2022, from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LU8Ksx49TgA

  Statement of Malta. CCW GGE Meeting on Lethal Autonomous Weapons
  Systems, UN audio files. (2021, September 24). Retrieved April 13,
  2022, from:
  https://conf.unog.ch/dr/public/61.0500/9393801E-E15D-4CA3-B154-401AA343ACB1_10h19/chunks/snippet_lEs111-41t114-30.mp3
  ("we also subscribe to the view that the application of LAWS, insofar
  as these systems are preprogrammed to attack, would remove the human
  judgment to exercise discretion, flexibility, or adaptability, or
  perhaps restraint or mercy.")

  Group of 10. "Written Contribution for the Chair of the Group of
  Government Experts (GGE) on Lethal Autonomous Weapon Systems (LAWS)",
  p. 4-5. (2021, September). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from:
  https://reachingcriticalwill.org/images/documents/Disarmamentfora/ccw/2021/gge/documents/G10_sept.pdf

  Peter Asaro. "Autonomous Weapons and the Ethics of Artificial
  Intelligence" in Ethics of Artificial Intelligence, ed. S. Matthew
  Liao, (Oxford: Oxford Scholarship Online, October 2020)

  Statement of Mexico on behalf of Brazil, Chile, and Mexico. CCW GGE
  Meeting on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, UN audio files. (2021,
  September 30). Retrieved April 13, 2022, from:
  https://conf.unog.ch/dr/public/61.0500/BBCD7228-3EEE-4C80-B2CA-7576AoEDFDE0_10h10/chunks/snippet_lEs107-12t116-37.mp3

  Dorosin, J. (2021, December 3). Convention on CCW Group of
  governmental experts on emerging technologies in the area of laws.
  U.S. Mission to International Organizations in Geneva. Retrieved April
  13, 2022, from
  https://geneva.usmission.gov/2021/12/03/convention-on-ccw-group-of-governmental-experts-on-emerging-technologies-in-the-area-of-laws/

Stopping killer robots. Human Rights Watch. (2021, April 5). Retrieved
April 13, 2022, from
https://www.hrw.org/report/2020/08/10/stopping-killer-robots/country-positions-banning-fully-autonomous-weapons-and#

Kallenborn, Z. (2020, October 14). A partial ban on autonomous weapons
would make everyone safer. Foreign Policy. Retrieved April 13, 2022,
from
https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/10/14/ai-drones-swarms-killer-robots-partial-ban-on-autonomous-weapons-would-make-everyone-safer/

  Government of Venezuela. “General Principles on Lethal Autonomous
  Weapons Systems”. Working Paper submitted on behalf of the Non-Aligned
  Movement (NAM) and other states parties to the Convention on
  Conventional Weapons Group of Governmental Experts on lethal
  autonomous weapons systems. (2018, March 28). Retrieved April 13,
  2022, from:
  https://www.unog.ch/80256EDD006B8954/(httpAssets)/E9BBB3F7ACBE8790C125825F004AA329/$file/CCW_GGE_1_2018_WP.1.pdf

  "Report of the Group of Governmental Experts on Emerging Technologies
  in the Area of Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems". CCW/GGE.1/2019/3,
  p. 13. Guiding Principle (f). (2019, September 25)

Maurer, P. (2021, December 10). Peter Maurer: "Autonomous weapon systems
raise ethical concerns for society". ReliefWeb. Retrieved April 13,
2022, from
https://reliefweb.int/report/world/peter-maurer-autonomous-weapon-systems-raise-ethical-concerns-society


Iñaki Arango

Richard T. Lee, M.D.

GENED 1053

07 October 2022

Healthy Living Challenge

I am an international student from Argentina. Having transferred
recently from Rice University, my biggest challenge has been able to
balance the development of healthy habits with academics and a social
life.

HEALTHY LIVING PROPOSAL

During the healthy living challenge, I focused on eating a good amount
of food consistently and tried to sleep at the same time every day. I
was not necessarily aiming to sleep early, but to do it at consistent
times.

Last year I was extremely busy during the second semester, between
transfer applications and trying to keep up with multiple weekly problem
sets, so I was usually going to sleep between 4 AM and 7 AM, and waking
up in the early afternoon. This “worked” for a while because I was more
productive at night, but after a some time my body started asking for
more and more hours of sleep, so even though I was going to sleep at the
same time, I would wake up later.

Even though by the end I was sleeping the same amount of hours as I did
in my first semester, my sleep schedule was completely misaligned with
daylight, and I was feeling the physical effects it had on my body.

This semester I decided that the bases for a good social and academic
life was to first get my eating and sleeping habits in check. After each
meal I would take note of what I ate, the ingredients of the food, and
the number of drinks consumed.

Initially I thought my biggest obstacle was going to be having enough
time to eat on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays, since I have class from
12 PM to 3 PM, and the dining hall closes at 2 PM. That means that I
would normally not be able to have lunch on those three days, which
represent the majority of my weekdays. To get around that, I would plan
those three days so that I could be at 11:20 the the dining hall, and as
soon as lunch opened at 11:30, I would be the first one inside. After
eating for 20 minutes, I would go to class as quickly as I could. It is
not optimal to eat that fast, but it was better than not eating.

SUMMARY OF DATA COLLECTION

To track my progress in Excel, I created two sheets, one that included
the food information mentioned in the section above, and one that had
the time at which I went to sleep and woke up every day. I analyzed
three aspects of my life after the two weeks: meal ingredients,
distribution of drink types and how much I slept.

Common meal ingredients. Plotting what I ate per meal, weighted by the
amount I consumed, it is apparent that I have a somewhat varied diet
except for my high chicken consumption. Given that chicken meat is low
on fat and high on protein, I do not recognize this as an issue.[Chart]

Drink Types. Another interesting thing I noticed is that my drinking
habits are typically good. I drink at least one cup of a drink per meal,
sometimes more, and it is usually water or water alternatives that are
not unhealthy. The following shows the percentages of my daily average
intake that come from each beverage source.

[Chart]

Although it may look like I consume a lot of boba, this is a phenomenon
that really developed during the last week. In the first couple of weeks
of school, including the first one of the healthy living challenge, I
got boba at most two times per week, but during the first week of
midterms, I went almost every night. It was probably related to stress
and tiredness. This is a habit I need to stop because, while it is not
necessarily unhealthy, it is quite expensive.

Amount of Sleep per Day. I usually sleep around 7 to 8 hours per night,
which is what I am currently targeting. During the second week,
unfortunately, this time went down significantly due to having to spend
an unexpected amount of time getting prepared for midterms. I did not
plan for that beforehand, so it caught me off guard and I was not able
to compensate accordingly.[Chart]

REFLECTION AND DISCUSSION

The first week of the challenge I noticed increases in energy and
productivity, I was able to get distracted less and do work in between
classes, which freed up time in the afternoons and nights to get
together with friends. The second week however I was not able to keep up
with my habits and saw a significant decline energy and happiness.

I expected my main obstacles to be problem sets, but they did not turn
out to be much of a struggle. As long as I started them early, which is
what I forced myself to do, I would be able to comfortably finish them
in time and not have to stay up late the night before the submission
date.

The huge obstacle I did face was midterms. Once they got close, I
realized that there was considerably more to study than I had initially
thought, so that meant skipping classes, meals and sleep to study for
them. This is the biggest cause of my decreased mood in the second week.

CONCLUSION

Completing my healthy challenge made me really appreciate the importance
of building sustainable habits. I had become used to lower standards of
living because I did not have any way of measuring my habits, but
tracking what I ate and how much I slept every day showed me there was a
very strong correlation between the eating and sleeping habits of a
certain week, and my energy and productivity.

The challenge has showed me how much impact relatively small
improvements in daily habits can have in my day to day, and has made me
take a closer look at my behaviour and how to improve it.


Market Validation

Creo que podemos borrar esa diapositiva

Elevator pitch

We are building a platform to facilitate the migration of everyday users
to the blockchain and democratize access to important documents

Problem

The cost of working with legal documents is high, the wait time too
long, there is no easy way to retrieve and validate stored documents

Solution

A platform that allows institutions to issue documents effortlessly to
the blockchain, and providing an easy way to share and visualize them

Unique selling point

We understand that it is not only technology what drives progress.
People have to understand what is happening behind their user interface
and feel confident. That is why besides developing secure storage and
sharing solutions, we put a lot of effort into perfecting our user
experience.

Tell us what makes you, your team and product/service special and why
you will become a successful business. (300 characters)


Iñaki Arango

Cambridge, MA • inakiarango@college.harvard.edu • +1 (281) 919-8581 •
linkedin.com/in/inaki-arango

EDUCATION

HARVARD UNIVERSITY Cambridge, MA

Bachelor of Arts, Major in Computer Science; Minor in Statistics
Expected Graduation: May 2025

EXTRACURRICULARS: Datamatch, Arete Fellowship, Sophomore Rep for SHPE,
Rice Ventures GPA: 4.00 / 4.00

RELEVANT CLASSES: Computational Thinking, Algorithmic Thinking, Discrete
Math, Proof-based Linear Algebra, Proof-based Algorithms, Probability,
Statistics | NOTE: Transferred from Rice University at the end of
freshman year

ESCUELA ORT BELGRANO Buenos Aires, Argentina

High School Diploma, Information and Communication Technologies Track
March 2014 - December 2019

RANK: 1^(st) (Valedictorian / Argentinian Flag Bearer) GPA: 98.2 / 100

EXTRACURRICULARS: International Junior Science Olympiad (2 x National
Gold, 1 x International Bronze, Trainer Assistant), National Competitive
Programming Olympiad (1 x National Silver, Trainer Assistant)

SKILLS

SKILLS: Full Stack Development (JavaScript, TypeScript, GraphQL, React,
Nest, Redwood), App Development (Expo, React Native), Chrome Extension
Development, Python, Algorithmic Programming (C++), Project Management
(Notion), Management Skills and Leadership.

LANGUAGES: Spanish - Native, English - Bilingual

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

RECYCO San Francisco, CA and New York, NY

Co-Founder, Technical & Strategy (Started during gap year) January
2020 - January 2023

-   Led and closed negotiations with clients for contracts worth $650k+,
    including Nestlé and Unilever.

-   Was in charge of hiring a team of 4 technical employees, including a
    project manager, DevOps and software engineers.

-   Designed and implemented software architecture for the main product,
    including 2 apps (React Native monorepo), a management dashboard
    (Redwood, React, GraphQL), and a backend (Node, TypeScript, GraphQL,
    Prisma).

-   Managed 2 part-time programmers through the MVP development process.

ROMULUS CAPITAL Remote / Boston, MA

Associate (Gap year) October 2020 - August 2021

-   Sourced & led due diligence for 4 companies, which led to $150k+
    worth of investments.

-   Developed sourcing and deal management setup (Notion + Streak +
    Custom Chrome Extension) using TypeScript, React, and Nest.

-   Researched strategies employed by 2 top performing companies in
    ConTech and PropTech space and presented them to the whole firm.

REINDI Buenos Aires, Argentina

Product Manager & Software Engineer (Gap year / part-time) October
2019 - August 2021

-   Outlined work plans, determined resources, and generated initial
    budgets for the development of a healthcare documents platform on
    the Ethereum blockchain. Managed 3 people and educated personnel on
    development methods to meet appropriate quality standards.

-   Developed the Solidity smart contracts that encoded and stored the
    healthcare data on the blockchain.

-   Developed the backend infrastructure in Node.js that interfaced with
    the smart contracts in the Ethereum blockchain.

RUTD Remote / Houston, TX

Interim CTO (Gap year / part-time) January 2021 - August 2021

-   Designed Technical architecture comprised of an app (React Native),
    a management dashboard (Vue) and a monolithic server (Nest).

-   Performed customer interviews and collaborated with the CEO to
    narrow down the scope of the MVP and determine the company strategy.

-   Won first place and $27.5k price in the Rice Napier Launch
    Challenge.

SATELLOGIC Remote / Houston, TX

Software Engineering Intern July 2018 - December 2018

-   Used Vue, Electron and Python (OpenCV) to create processing software
    for satellite imagery.

-   Developed Linux drivers (C++) for infrared camera onboard ñuSat
    satellite.

LEADERSHIP & INVOLVEMENT

RICE NEW ENERGY FUND Houston, TX

Head of Operations & Diversified Team Analyst January 2021 - August 2021

-   Contacted and followed up with potential investors, organized the
    recruitment process for our first analysts, and established the
    organization’s mission, vision, and strategy. Helped raise $150k in
    initial capital during the Fall semester.


Avineri

https://campus.belgrano.ort.edu.ar/educacionjudia/descargar/articulos/768198/

Resumen

Los judíos se mantuvieron una comunidad que no era meramente religiosa
porque mantuvieron una relación con la tierra de sus antepasados. No
solo se consideraban una minoría en los países donde habitaban durante
la diáspora, sino una minoría exiliada. Esto era porque supuestamente no
estaban en la tierra que le correspondía a su nación.

Muchos judíos continuaban con las tradiciones en las que referencian su
deseo de volver a la Tierra Prometida, pero muy pocos efectivamente lo
hacían. Es más, se justificaba desde el punto de vista religioso,
diciendo que “la providencia divina y no la intervención humana debía
determinar cuándo y cómo los judíos serían redimidos de su exilio y
retornarían a Sión”.

Esto implicaba una paradoja: Había un por un lado un fuerte sentimiento
de unión a ala Tierra de Israel, pero no había esfuerzos presentes por
hacer cumplir el cometido de retornar.

Hasta la segunda mitad del siglo XIX no apareció ningún movimiento
activo de retorno a Palestina. El sionismo y el establecimiento del
Estado de Israel desencadenaron de este movimiento. Es comúnmente dicho
que este surgimiento se debe a la erupción del antisemitismo (Ej: Caso
Dreyfus y teorías racistas alemanas), pero no es una buena respuesta,
debido a que el antisemitismo, o por lo menos la animosidad anti judía,
estuvieron presentes en Europa desde mucho antes.

La paradoja continúa a partir del hecho de que el siglo en el que surgió
el movimiento sionista, coincide con “el mejor siglo que los judíos
experimentaron, colectiva e individualmente desde la destrucción del
Templo”. Con la Revolución Francesa y la emancipación, por primera vez
los judíos fueron aceptados como ciudadanos en la sociedad europea, y
por primera vez gozaron de igualdad ante la ley, pudieron ingresar en
las escuelas,,Surgió el dilema de qué era ser judío. Porque cada vez
perdían más el lazo de las tradiciones, debido a que se fueron adaptando
de forma distintas a la sociedad civil luego de la emancipación. Y si
bien en la sociedad los no judíos los dejaron de diferenciar por un tema
religioso (antes se identificaban a sí mismos como cristianos y los
otros eran diferentes por judíos), las personas se comenzaron a
identificar como parte de una nación, un grupo de personas que
compartían un lenguaje, tradiciones en común y una historia de un pasado
común, sea verdadera o ficticia.

Con esta corriente nacionalista entonces, surgió una pregunta. Si bien
era universalista la sociedad, y no se dudaba que el judío perteneciera
a esta, cuando en la escuela se aprendía sobre el pasado común, por
ejemplo, y se les enseñaba a los niños franceses que provenían de los
galos, los niños judíos podían también identificarse?

Lo que a Hertzl le pegó del caso Dreyfus fue que si bien la sociedad del
momento se encontraba frente al judío más secularizado posible, cuando
hubo un problema, lo que empezaron a decir fue “y cómo no va a ser él,
si es judío”. Hertzl se dio cuenta entonces, que si bien la emancipación
prometió una sociedad universalista, en lo profundo la gente francesa de
origen galo, no terminaba de tratar como completamente iguales a los
judíos, por más asimilados que estuviesen, porque no tenían el mismo
origen.

Dejando de lado este tema, surgen más problemas. Un padre judío, que
quiere enviar a su hijo a la escuela, y quiere mandarlo a una escuela
“general”, va a tener que en realidad mandarlo a una escuela que se
asocia con una nación específica. Y se agrava el problema en territorios
discutidos, ya que se encuentran presentes escuelas de diferentes
naciones.

El sionismo fue precedido por el resurgimiento del idioma hebreo en
Europa Oriental. Hasta el momento se había utilizado con un propósito
meramente religioso, pero con el surgimiento del nacionalismo, comenzó a
utilizarse para todo, como medio de comunicación literaria y no
religioso.

Los judíos modernos y secularizados comenzaron a investigar los orígenes
de su cultura, las raíces de su historia; a exaltar las glorias de
Jerusalén; a preguntarse acerca de su propio pasado como lo hacían los
miembros de otros grupos.

El liberalismo y el nacionalismo crearon en los judíos el inicio de una
nueva autoconciencia, no determinada por la religión, sino semejante al
nacionalismo moderno y Secular de Europa. Comenzó con una literatura
propia, la Haskalá, y siguió con el sionismo político de Hertzl.

Los judíos que buscaban la seguridad económica, emigraron a América.
Fueron los que emigraron a Palestina cuando comenzaron los pogroms que
no buscaban seguridad económica (el Imperio Otomano de ese momento
estaba lejos de ser un paraíso económico), sino que anhelaban la
autodeterminación, la identidad y la liberación dentro del concepto
europeo de cultura nacional.

TERMINAR DESPUÉS DE EXPLICARRR - ARGHH FLOR

Actividad

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qscF_V-_0HnoDJDAVSckC-kTuxUln2igrb39zlui8OI/edit?usp=sharing

Pinsker

https://campus.belgrano.ort.edu.ar/educacionjudia/descargar/articulos/908688/

Resumen

Pinsker comienza primero con un análisis de la condición de los judíos
de la diáspora. Dice que por un intento de supervivencia individual, se
perdió la cohesión grupal de la identidad judía. Lo único que los seguía
uniendo era la religión, e incluso las tradiciones religiosas se habían
diferenciado entre los distintos lugares que abarcaba la diáspora por lo
que era difícil mantener la cohesión nacional.

Continúa diciendo que por la constante opresión que vivieron a lo largo
de los años, los judíos fueron de a poco pensando a futuro, y con los
grandes ideales que tenían al principio y se resignaron a simplemente
poder subsistir. Perdieron la idea de un movimiento colectivo judío.

Pinsker llama al judío del presente diciendo que ahora, que todos los
pueblos oprimidos hasta el momento están comenzando a luchar por sus
ideales, es momento de que el pueblo judío haga lo mismo y comience la
luchar por encontrar un nuevo hogar.

Según Pinsker, los judíos deben “emprender la labor con firme decisión y
dispuestos a todos los sacrificios” la búsqueda de un hogar nacional.

Algo importante a remarcar es que Pinsker nunca hace referencia a la
Tierra de Israel, o la trata como el único destino, sino que cree que
hace falta un nuevo hogar, sin saber todavía en dónde. En sus misma
palabras, él dice que “no sabemos aún si la hallaremos en el Oriente o
en el Occidente”.

Actividad

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q_I1p-bMS_i5mW0x3WAKlOjDfdLKHnuQMd5qJBf8vOQ/edit?usp=sharing

Hertzl

https://campus.belgrano.ort.edu.ar/educacionjudia/descargar/articulos/908687/

Medinat Haiehudim

Hertzl, en un libro llamado Medinat Haiehudim, publicado en 1896,
reflexiona sobre y busca una forma de resolver “el fracaso de la
emancipación”.

El problema judio

Hertzl habla de la miseria en que viven los judíos. Dice que en todos
los países en los que habitan, se encuentran en un estado de
inferioridad en comparación con el resto de la población. Explica, algo
que es razonable, aunque no moralmente correcto, que es que el nivel de
agresión depende del país y de las capas sociales.

En Rusia saquean aldeas judías, en Rumania matana algunos hombres, en
Alemania le hacen un boicot económico y los apalean de vez en cuando, en
Austria los antisemitas siembran terror en distintos sectores de la vida
pública, en Argelia surgen predicadores que hablan mal de los judíos, y
en Francia, en los altos sectores, los círculos se cierran dejando
afuera a los judíos.

Hertzl agrega que la razón por la que describe de esta manera las
penurias que sufren los judíos no es para compadecer ni mover a nadie.
Según él, eso sería inútil e indigno. Simplemente quiere introducir en
el judío algunas preguntas que lo lleven a reflexionar, ya darse cuenta
de varios puntos:

-   Que la vida de los judíos es muchas profesiones se hace cada vez más
    insoportable.

-   Que la clase media judía se halla amenazada.

-   Que las pasiones del populacho son incitadas contra los ricos entre
    los judíos.

-   Que el proletariado judío sufre todavía más que el resto de los
    proletarios.

De cómo se ha tratado hasta ahora de resolver el problema

Hasta ahora, las “soluciones” actuales, o son mezquinas, como lo es
mover una cierta cantidad de judíos, que ronda los miles, a colonias en
lugares donde el antisemitismo no está muy desarrollado, o fue concebida
de forma errónea, como lo es reubicarse dentro de un país para trabajar
como agricultores. En esta colonias suelen trabajar comunitariamente
como agricultores. El problema con estas soluciones es que, o fallan, o
el antisemitismo en estos nuevos lugar crece proporcionalmente a la
fortuna de los judíos.

Las causas del antisemitismo

Hertzl separa las causas religiosas del antisemitismo, que él considera
anticuada y que ya no aplican para este tiempo, de las económicas y
políticas, que son en las cuáles se fundamenta el antisemitismo moderno.

Según Hertzl, en los países de la actualidad donde reina el
antisemitismo, este es consecuencia de la emancipación. Las sociedades
se vieron obligadas a darle igualdad a los judíos cuando se dieron
cuenta de lo inhumanas que eran las leyes de excepción.

Pero los judíos en las propias comunidades que se habían formados, ya
había cultivado una clase media, y cuando esta se liberó y se puso en
competencia con el resto de la sociedad, algunos rápidamente llegaron a
los círculos burgueses, en los cuales los judíos supuestamente se
encontraban bajo una doble presión, una interna y una externa. La
burguesía cristiana no pondría reparos en inmolar a los burgueses judíos
en aras del socialismo, pero esto tampoco remediaría la situación.

Efectos del antisemitismo

Hertzl opina que los judíos son un pueblo, y que esto es de esta manera
porque los enemigos los fuerzan a serlo. Ante presiones externas, los
judíos se unen para resistir y es en este momento que se revela la
verdadera fuerza colectiva que tienen.

Según Hertzl, esta fuerza es suficiente como para crear un Estado, “y un
Estado modelo”. Y según él los judíos poseen los materiales y los medios
humanos como para hacer ese sueño una realidad.

El plan

El plan, reducida a su mínima expresión consiste en que al pueblo se le
otorgue un pedazo de la superficie terrestre adecuado a las necesidades
de los judíos y de sus “justas ambiciones de pueblo”. Hertzl explicita
que todo el resto de las cosas requeridas para un Estado lo proveerán
ellos mismos.

Hertzl explica por qué la aparición de una nueva soberanía no es tan
imposible como uno pensaría. Para esto habla de otros países en ese
período que obtuvieron la suya, y aclara que muchos de estos pueblos
eran menos cultos y desarrollados que el judío, y por lo tanto, esto los
dejaría a los judíos en una situación en la que pueden hacer pedidos por
un territorio propio. Añade Hertzl que es de sumo interés de los países
plagado por el antisemitismo que esto ocurra, debido a que de esta
manera mucho judíos abandonarían estos países en favor de su propia
tierra.

Hertzl establece la creación de dos grandes órganos para ayudar a
cumplir esta tarea “sencilla en principio, pero complicada en su
realización”: La Society of Jews y la Jewish Company.

Lo que la Society of Jews ha preparado política y científicamente, la
Jewish Company lo pone en práctica.

La Jewish Company, entre sus muchas tareas, debe encargarse de liquidar
los bienes de los judíos que emigran de sus países originales. Cabe
aclarar que esta migración no se espera que sea repentina, sino gradual,
con el paso de las décadas.

A la nueva tierra irán primero los más pobres, que la trabajarán y
crearán la infraestructura básica para un país insurgente
(ferrocarriles, puentes, represas, líneas telegráficas, etc.). Estos
desarrollos, como cualquier otros, darán lugar a nuevos mercados, que
atraerán a más judíos, aquellos con espíritu emprendedor (odiado hasta
el momento) a ir por su propia voluntad, cuenta y riesgo.

Hertzl luego continúa con su plan para efectivamente conseguir la
tierra. Dice que no es una buena forma de conseguir un Estado moderno
conseguirla como lo hicieron los europeos en el siglo V, exterminando a
toda la población actual. Que se deberá conseguir por medio de la
diplomacia, y que la población de la tierra ocurrirá sola luego de que
las clases más altas sigan a las más bajas que fueron por un tema de
desesperación económica.

Hertzl enfatiza que el trabajo de la Jewish Society no debe ser puesto a
votación, debido a que de ser así, ya estaría todo perdido de antemano,
sino que se debe estipular que quien quiera se puede adherir al plan
existente, y quien está en contra, que simplemente no lo haga.

La Jewish Society se establecerá internacionalmente como la autoridad
capaz de constituir un Estado, en este caso, un Estado judío.

La Jewish Society entonces entablará relaciones con los actuales dueños
de las tierras que resultan de interés, y bajo el protectorado de
naciones europeas, se pondrá en contacto con los gobiernos de los mismos
para hacer sus pedidos.

Los territ orios que más interesan son Eretz Israel y Argentina. Hertzl
aclara que resultaría beneficiosos para los países contiguos brindarles
este espacio a los judíos por dos motivos. Primero de todo, la
infraestructura construida para el nuevo Estado podría ser aprovechada
por estos países, y segundo, la cultura de una región eleva el valor de
las culturas que la rodean.

El Sionismo en documentos

Descripción de la sesión inaugural del Congreso

Conclusiones del Primer Congreso Sionista

El el primer Congreso se concretaron cuatro puntos. Estos representaban
los objetivos del mismo de ahora en adelante.

-   Se nucleará a la comunidad judía global en organizaciones tanto
    internacionales como nacionales.

Actividad

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pJ6pMHVfoUr_pv0jnMU7vIov49uzM45kKsJ1R2QX_ow/edit?usp=sharing

Corrientes

https://docs.google.com/docume
nt/d/1OODCQsOYQSrJuY7B_Yov7MLtf_NyoDbepvtkJZYGSu8/edit#


1.  Iñaki

2.  My favorite subjects have been those where problem solving is
    encouraged (and sometimes required) to solve homeworkexam questions.
    I prefer them since I don't have to spend as much time memorizing
    and I can focus on understanding how things work "under the hood". I
    believe that the subjects where you understand the concepts deeply,
    are the ones that truly stick to you and can help you later on in
    life. This type of subject includes: Physics, Math and Computer
    Science.

  I also enjoy the subjects where I end up creating or being able to
  create from scratch something by the end of the course (eg. Design).

  My least favorite subjects have been those where I need to read large
  amounts of information about many different topics, memorize it, and
  spit it out again during an exam. 90% of that information is forgotten
  after a couple of months, so I typically don't enjoy it during the
  course nor after it has finished. Examples: Biology, Geography,
  History and Literature. Of course it depends on the topics. If I am
  interested in them, for any reason, I tend to enjoy the course, even
  if memory intensive.

3.  I have performed best in logic based subjects such as Math,
    Calculus, Physics and Computer Science. I have struggled on memory
    intensive subjects such as History, Biology and Geography. I have
    also struggled somewhat when having to perform very abstract
    analysis, such as the ones in Philosophy or Literature.

4.  Somewhat prepared

5.  Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, Engineering

6.  Computer Science

7.  Cognitive Science

8.  Economics

9.  I selected Computer Science as my first choice because it is
    something that intrigues me, that I enjoyed studying during High
    School and that I already do naturally during my free time. I also
    believe it leaves a lot of career paths open, since CS can be
    applied to many different industries.

  I am very interested in how computers influence the way humans
  interact with the environment and with one another. From my
  understanding of the cognitive science major, it involves Psychology,
  Neuroscience and Philosophy; important subjects to understand if one
  want to develop true solutions to humanities problems.

  I chose Economics as it is a topic that interests me. Both
  theoretically, and applied to solve specific problems in real life
  related to the scarcity of resources. I am interested in economic
  public policy.

10. D

11. D

12. I would like to do research in the Artificial Intelligence / Human
    Computer Interaction space, and both Computer Science and Cognitive
    Science are helpful for that.

  I also chose economics because:

  – I would like to work in something related to finance at some point.

  – I would like to better understand how policy influences the markets
  and society, and how it can be used to improve Argentina's situation.

13. I anticipate writing-focused and memory-intensive courses to be the
    hardest.

14. There are various goals I would like to achieve at the same time, or
    at different times throughout my life (not in any specific order):

  – Doing research on a topic that interests me.

  – Founding and running my own business.

  – Working on something that has a positive social impact.

  – Impacting policy in a significant way, either in the US or
  Argentina.

  – Being able to live comfortably and provide a life for myself and my
  family.

  – Never stop learning and evolving.

15. – I am considering learning a new language while at Rice. Currently
    thinking about either Hebrew or Chinese (leaning towards the
    latter).

  – I currently help early-stage startups in technical and non-technical
  capacities. I would like to continue doing this and become more
  involved in the entrepreneurship ecosystem at Rice, although I haven't
  yet decided in what capacity.

  – I would like to do research. Within Computer Science, there are 3
  topics that especially interest me: Computational genomics, "AI"
  (Machine learning as well other techniques) and graphics/simulations
  (2D and 3D).

16. One of my main concerns is not being able to organize my time
    effectively, with all the ramifications that has.

  Another concern of mine is not being able to become comfortable living
  in completely shared spaces, without having a place I can call only my
  own.

17. D

18. 3 things:

  – I had a big surgery during 2020, and after a year of rest, I need to
  start doing recovery exercise. This involves going to the gym multiple
  times a week (~4) and also doing something outside (eg. golf).

  – VC/Entrepreneurship: I've been offered the possibility to
  intern/work part-time during the year at a VC firm where I have a year
  of experience as an Associate (Sourcing, Due Diligence & Thesis
  Development).

  – I didn't find a space to put it in the other fields, but a very
  important goal of mine at Rice is to meet new people, make friends and
  become exposed to a wide range of cultures and ways of thinking.

  Note:

  I am aware that the coursework at Rice is demanding and that I will
  not be able to pursue all of my interests. I would like to better
  understand the resources the university has to offer related to the
  interests mentioned in the form and if possible I would like help
  organizing my activities/workload in such a way that I am able to fill
  satisfied without burning out at the same time.

19. 
20. 


1.  Computer Science, Cognitive Science and Econ are my potential
    majors. I haven't yet decided on one, but if I had to choose the
    most likely, it would probably be Comp Sci.

  Within Computer Science, there are 3 topics that especially interest
  me: Computational genomics, "AI" (Machine learning as well other
  techniques) and graphics/simulations (2D and 3D).

  I don't have a specific career plan in mind, but I'm interested in
  both entrepreneurship and corporate jobs. Probably something that
  involves software and or finance. Long term, I would like to found/own
  my own company, and also influence policy.

2.  Outside of school my favorite thing is to hang out with friends.
    What we do isn't as important as spending time together. I like
    going out to eat and also doing more active things, like playing
    golf or padel.

  I also like to go to the gym, it helps me clear my mind and feel
  generally better, both mentally and physically.

3.  I don't have a favorite book, but one I really liked was the first
    Sherlock Holmes, "A Study in Scarlet". I like mystery books, as well
    as movies, because I am thinking about how it will end throughout
    the whole story, and constantly updating my theories as new clues
    pop up. I find the whole process really entertaining.

4.  My favorite movie is Hidden Figures. The plot follows three
    mathematicians that start working at NASA and find themselves the
    victims of discrimination due to their skin color and their gender.
    The reason I like it is that despite these initial issues, they
    prove to be pivotal to the launch of the first American orbital
    spaceflight.

5.  My favorite meal is Ceviche, a seafood dish from Peru that typically
    contains raw fish "cooked" with lemon juice. I find the mix of
    flavours between the fish and the grains or rice side dish very
    tasty.

6.  What we do isn't as important as spending time together. I enjoy
    talking and discussing virtually any topic that comes up, so any
    activity that allows for that I enjoy (eg. coffee, eating out,
    golf).

  I also like to exercise with friends, like playing padel or going to
  the gym.

  Another thing I like to do is go out and try new food places.

7.  I like pop, trap (from Argentina), rap, LoFi and sometimes a bit of
    acoustic.

  Pop: Oscu, Sebastián Yatra, Machine Gun Kelly, Chayanne, Camilo,
  COldplay

  Trap: Bizarrap, WOS, Duki

  Rap: Juice WRLD, Khantrast, Drake

  Acoustic: Mancha de Rolando, Ed Maverick

8.  My favorite memory is from my time in Panama. The global
    organization to which my high school belonged arranged a trip to
    Panama for incoming seniors from high schools from around the world.
    I got to live for 2 weeks in a house with 15 other teenagers, all of
    whom were super fun and friendly.

9.  I'd like to have dinner with the three grandparents I was never able
    to meet. I have no sense for any of the two on my mothers side, but
    agree with many of their values from the stories I heard.

10. On my father's side, my grandfather was a mathematician and
    engineer. On top of that, I've been told we have very similar
    personalities, so I believe that I would have really enjoyed his
    company and that we would have had amazing conversations.

11. I usually meet new people in social gatherings or parties when I get
    together with friends of friends. With the ones I have a chance to
    talk to and whose company I enjoy, I usually become friends. I like
    to be there for my friends whenever they need me, and would like my
    friends to be the same.

  I don't need to have any specific interests in common. There are
  people very similar to me with whom I cannot get the conversation
  going, while there are others with completely different interests, but
  with whom I can talk for hours on end without getting bored. If that
  happens with someone, and I know they are a good person and would
  treat me with respect, that's pretty much all I need for them to
  become my friends.

12. I don't usually become attached to physical objects, so it'd be hard
    to say.

  The first would be a picture of my family.

  The second one would be the lanyard they gave me during a science
  competition in the Netherlands. The preparation for that was a very
  tough process for me. I was under a lot of pressure and I believe that
  the only way I was able to go through it was thanks to my family,
  friends and teammates. The lanyard is a reminder of what we could
  overcome together.

  The third one would be the slippers I got at the hospital while I was
  recovering from back surgery. It was heavy, and for a couple of days I
  could not move, and after I began to move, I still wasn't able to
  walk. I though at that time that having decided to go through the
  surgery was a terrible mistake. In the end, I was able to recover my
  mobility after training by walking around the hospital (with those
  slippers on).

13. One time I was taking measurements in the jungle for a project, and
    I had to cross a small river, that rather than water flowing had
    like a foot deep of mud. The only way I found to cross it was by
    walking on a log that had fallen across the river and acted as a
    bridge. Turns out that the log was rotten on the inside, and while
    crossing it broke in half. I managed to jump to the other side
    quickly enough to not get dirty. But the interesting part was when I
    had to get back. The log was still the only way to cross, so I
    though of jumping from one half to the other and then to land again.
    Well, while landing on the second half, it broke. After getting one
    foot into the mud, I managed to jump with the other and grab a tree
    branch that was directly above the river. I waited hanging there
    until someone came to help me get down. For a couple of minutes I
    felt like Indiana Jones, the off-brand version.

14. 


1.  I live with my dad, my mom and my dog (German Shepherd). During the
    year I only see them for a couple hours at night. They both work
    until really late and my father spends a good chunk of the year
    working in other cities away from home.

  When we are at home at the same time we usually share a meal together
  and my dad always cooks something interesting. He loves to read books,
  the news and continuously learn, so every time we are together new
  topics of conversation come up.

2.  I would describe myself as a night owl, since my energy juices start
    flowing towards the end of the day, but I am trying to change that.
    I'd like to be able to do the bulk of my work during the day, and
    not have that much work left for the night.

3.  I currently go to sleep late and wake up late, but I'd like to do
    everything earlier, so I believe I will be sleeping from 12AM/1AM –
    9AM.

4.  I like everything to be as calm as possible. No noise, and no or
    very little light would be ideal. Room temperature is fine as long
    as I am able to feel comfortable under the sheets (i.e. it doesn't
    matter if it's a bit colder than usual – I actually prefer it).

5.  I like the main working area of my desk (keyboard, mouse, monitor,
    etc.) as tidy as possible. I usually have books, articles and other
    reading material to the side piled up.

  I also like my bathroom as tidy as possible. I usually store
  everything inside the cabinet except my toothbrush and paste, and one
  or two moisturizers I use every day.

  I like my room to be generally tidy, but I am not bothered by someone
  occasionally leaving things on top of surfaces or where they shouldn't
  be. I often do that until I remember to pick it up and store it.

6.  When I am first getting accustomed to a new room, I usually put my
    things on only one place, be it cabinet, bag, on top the bed, etc.
    After a while I start scattering my belongings a bit more. This
    applies to the room in generally, but not to the bathroom.

7.  I prefer most of the time to not use headphones if alone, but I
    understand that another person would like to focus on studying,
    sleeping, or simply just not want to hear what I am listening to, so
    I would use headphones when others are around.

8.  I guess most of the time spent in my room would be either studying
    or relaxing. I usually prefer hanging out of friends outside of my
    living area (restaurant, walk, sport, drive, etc.). I don't yet know
    if I prefer to study in my room o in the library. In case I
    preferred the library, I guess a larger share of my time in my room
    would be spent with friends.

9.  I enjoy having people over, and would like if my roommate also felt
    the same way. At the same time, though, I sometimes need alone time
    to relax and recharge. During that time I'd prefer the least amount
    of people possible being in my place.

10. I do not mind as long as it doesn't disturb my schedule, or whatever
    I'm doing that day. I would mind a bit if the period of stay was
    prolonged (5+ days) and the guest prevented me from having alone
    time to recharge.

11. I don't currently plan to do so, but the situation may arise. In
    that case they probably won't stay for more than a couple of days.

12. I do not mind as long as it doesn't disturb my schedule
    significantly, or whatever I'm doing that day. I would mind a bit if
    the period of stay was prolonged (5+ days) and the guest prevented
    me from having alone time to recharge.

  I believe I would be quite more flexible than with a non-romantic
  guest and try to accommodate my schedule if they needed me to not be
  in a room for some time.

13. Let's hope so :)

  I would avoid disturbing my roommate and of course, whenever possible,
  ask him first.

14. Definitely. I like to socialize, meet new people and learn about
    different cultures and ways of thinking. I will probably be a bit
    shy at the beginning until I get accustomed to Rice, but after that
    I would like to make use of the common areas as much as possible.

15. – Being sort of extroverted and open to meeting new people. I know
    that I often hang out too much with the people I already feel
    comfortable with, so having a natural way of exposing myself to more
    people would be nice.

  – Being respectful of the other person and their preferences. If that
  is the basis of the relationship with my roommate, I believe most, if
  not all, differences will be sorted out without a problem.

  – Fun to be around with would be nice. Having interests in common will
  probably lead to this.

16. – Going to parties: I described partying in another answer.

  – Hanging out with friends in my room: Some of the times I enjoy the
  most are just chilling and talking with friends without a need to be
  doing anything in particular. This can happen in any relatively
  relaxed environment (eg. room, restaurant, common area). If there's
  food, better.

  – Political/Philosophical discussions: I definitely enjoy talking with
  people and discussing their political and philosophical beliefs. As
  long as it respectful, I find them some of the most fulfilling
  conversations.

  – Playing video games: I usually play PC or phone games with friends.
  I like creative/construction, shooters, strategy and puzzles.

  – Playing Sports: I like going to the gym. I am also starting to play
  golf and "padel".

  – Exploring Houston: I look forward to visit new places and experience
  new things!

  – Spending time outdoors: I like spending time outdoors, but not
  necessarily just walking. I like to be doing another things at the
  same time (eg. eating, playing a sport, talking).

17. Unless I have really pressing work that can't be performed during
    the weekend or the next week, I usually go out with friends during
    Friday and Saturday nights, sometimes to eat, and sometimes to
    party.

  If I'm free the rest of the weekend, then I also enjoy filling at
  least one of the days with activities (eg. going to the movies,
  hanging out, going out to eat, recreational sports, golf). The other
  day can also have activities or it can be free to allow me to relax
  and recharge before the next week begins.

18. I would separate parties into two buckets:

  –The first is the big party / club experience, where you probably
  don't know most of the people there. I typically don't enjoy dancing
  in itself, so to these I prefer to go with a group of friends.

  – The other are relatively small groups of people hanging out (of who
  I know a good chunk) with the music not as loud, so you can actually
  talk to others. This type of environment is the one I feel the most
  comfortable in and also the most fulfilling. It allows me to meet
  people and make new friends, and I genuinely enjoy my time.

19. It's understandable if something grabbed something confusing it for
    his, but I wouldn't like someone actively borrowing something
    without asking me first, or at least letting me know. I would
    probably talk to them after the fact to ask them to not borrow it
    again or to let me know next time, depending on the belonging.

20. If it is something small, I usually try to let it go, but most of
    the time I just deal with it head-on. I talk to the person who
    caused me harm or to whom I have caused harm and discuss our points
    of view to try to come to a agreement and prevent it from happening
    again


[]


Write a bio to introduce yourself to your class & to Romulus Capital in
4-6 sentences.

I am a student and developer with experience managing teams working on
software projects.

Recently, I became interested in the world of entrepreneurship and
venture capital, and decided to take a gap year before joining Rice to
develop my startup, Recyco. I am working on a way to streamline the used
packaging recovery of large corporations that want to increase the
amount of recyclable materials that go into the making of their new
products.

I enjoy meeting new people from different backgrounds and getting to
know their stories. I hope we will have a wonderful time and I look
forward to meeting you through video call!

Share some of your hobbies, your family, fun facts, personal passions
outside of tech, entrepreneurship, and innovation.

I like trying new food joints with friends on weekends and visiting my
101 years old grandmother during holidays. She still does crossword
puzzles better than me :)

I have a German Shepherd that after ten years still tries to catch food
in the air and fails every time. He also goes crazy and starts running
around when I jump into the pool because he thinks I am drowning.

Fun fact, I started swimming every morning a few weeks ago in an olympic
pool near my house, but since in Argentina we are still in quarantine, I
am the only one there. The lifeguard is so bored that every once in a
while he starts doing crunches.

Please enter your emergency contact's name, phone number, and e-mail.

Andrea Formaro, +54 9 11 5564-9395, andreaformaro@yahoo.com;

José María Arango, +54 9 11 3180-5342, josemariaarango@gmail.com

What does a successful fellowship experience look like for you?

I become comfortable working within a team at Romulus Capital and I am
able to provide useful insight and support. I find an interesting
industry and start developing a network of contacts I can reach out to
to find up-and-coming startups.

What are some professional goals you would like to achieve by the end of
the fellowship?

I want to become familiarized with the day to day work of a VC,
especially the vetting process for startups. I would like to understand
what crucial things investors look for to predict if a company will be
successful.

What are some personal goals you would like to achieve by the end of the
fellowship?

I would like to become a more confident English speaker, not stumbling
over my words when I get nervous, and to meet new people I can go see in
person after I arrive in the US.

What are some skills you would like to develop by the end of the
fellowship?

I would like to be able to more quickly realize which are the main
issues with an idea and come up with the correct questions to ask to
make sure it is solid.


Presentation Structure

Terminology

Drone structure

Ocean Vehicle Taxonomy, Total Addressable Market & Competitors (3 slides)

Commercial Applications

-   Baseline Environmental Assessment

-   Pipeline Survey

-   Debris/Clearance Survey

-   Emergency Response

-   Water Quality

-   Ecosystems Assessment

-   Route Survey

-   Charting

-   Pre/Post Dredging Survey

-   Asset Location

-   Marine Archaeology

-   EEZ Survey

-   Deep Sea Mining

-   Oceanography

-   Construction Support

-   Ship Hull / Infrastructure inspection

-   Shipwreck or crashed underwater aircraft localisation (sonar and
    video imaging)

Research Applications

-   Fisheries Research & Habitat Mapping

-   Acquaculture

-   Climate Change

-   Under Ice

-   Emergency Response

-   Water Quality

-   Ecosystem Assessment

-   Marine Archaeology

-   Deep Sea Ecology/Seabed Investigation

-   Ocean Observatories

-   Oceanography

-   Geophysics data gathering (sediment analysis, seafloor
    classification)

Defense Application

-   Organic Mine Countermeasure

-   Hydrographic Survey

-   Area Search

-   Surveillance & Reconnaissance

-   Expeditionary Mine Countermeasures

-   Mine Countermeasures (MCM)

-   Unexploded Ordnance (UXO)

-   Rapid Environmental Assessment (REA)

-   Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD)

-   Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)

-   Platform Surveillance for Homeland Security

-   Critical Infrastructure Protection

Bathymetric

[]

Industries

-   Tsunami Predictions

-   Oil & Gas

    -   This is by far the largest end-user industry worldwide. Its main
        interest is on the continental shelf, where tidal and weather
        prediction are important, and where bathymetry is obtained from
        comparatively local surveys. However the relationship between
        gravimetric and bathymetric data is important, and as
        exploration extends further over the edge of the shelf, all
        types of deep-water information become of increasing interest.
        The exploitation of this interest is discussed below.

    -   Surveying for the industry is carried out by survey companies
        for bathymetry and by geophysical companies for seismic
        exploration, which also involves a knowledge of local
        bathymetry. About 26% of the survey industry, (worth about
        US$200 million annually), and virtually all the geophysical
        industry (with a marine component worth about US$600 million
        annually) work for the oil and gas end-user. The oil and gas
        companies carry out no surveying for themselves.

-   Fishing

    -   The majority of commercial fishing is on the continental shelf,
        but migratory fish such as Tuna are caught in the upper levels
        of the deep ocean, and the industry needs better ocean modelling
        to identify uprising nutrients to predict fish stock variations
        and movements generally. This work, however, is mainly carried
        out by government fishery research laboratories, which also
        carry out specialized fish stock assessment surveys. Discovery
        of hitherto unknown shallow waters can lead to development of
        new fishing grounds, but the potential is small in the context
        of the industry as a whole.

-   Communications

    -   In spite of satellite contributions to communications,
        fibre-optic cables are an important element of the industry.
        There are about 250 significant submarine cables in existence
        with a total length exceeding 400,000 km. The choice of route
        depends on the level of cable armour and need for burial as well
        as the shortest distance and the need to avoid obstacles. Thus
        the communications industry requires detailed route surveys for
        cable laying, and more general bathymetry for initial route
        planning. The surveys are carried out mainly by survey
        companies, and are estimated to be worth about US$24 million per
        year, though this fluctuates. Improved ocean modelling is also
        of interest. The high cost and international aspects of most
        projects results in cable systems being owned by consortia of
        companies (for example one trans-Atlantic cable involves 31
        organizations). This makes it difficult for an approach to be
        made to the industry as a whole for support for global
        bathymetry.

-   Waste Disposal

    -   Waste disposal is becoming an increasingly serious problem as
        pollution controls and shortage of sites on land force up the
        cost of conventional disposal methods. If suitable methods can
        be devised to protect the environment, disposal in the deep
        ocean could become increasingly attractive economically. Global
        bathymetry with systematic coverage of abyssal plains and
        improved ocean modelling would be a necessary precondition.

-   Deep Sea Mining / Mineral Extraction

    -   The current industry is based on sand and aggregate extraction
        from the continental shelf. Future development of deep recovery
        of nodules depends on the cost relative to extraction from
        on-shore, and also on certain strategic considerations for
        countries without such resources. The technologies for deep
        recovery are being developed, but so far commercial extraction
        has not started to any great extent. Global bathymetry might be
        useful in determining potential sites in the rather distant
        future, when the deep ocean industry may be significant as
        resources ashore deplete.

-   Wet Salvage

    -   Wet salvage is the recovery of cargo and information from ships
        or aircraft that have sunk, as opposed to dry salvage, which
        aims to prevent the ship sinking. Wet Salvage from the deep
        ocean is a rare and expensive business, and though global
        bathymetry would be helpful, it is scarcely a significant
        economic force.

-   Medical

-   Climate Change Studies

-   

Competitors

Geological

Industries

Competitors

Geotechnical

Industries

Competitors

Chemical

Purposes

Competitors

Market

Biological

Purposes

Competitors

Market

Radioactive

Purposes

Competitors

Market

Magnetic

Industries

-   Mapping the basement surface and sediments in oil/gas exploration

-   Detecting different types of ore bodies in mining prospecting

-   Detecting metal objects in engineering geophysics

-   Mapping basement faults and fractures

-   Determining zones with different mineralization in logging as well
    as inspecting casing parameters

-   Studying the magnetic field of the Earth and its generators

-   A variety of other purposes such as natural hazards assessment,
    mapping impact structures and environmental studies

Competitors

Market

Imagery

-   

Coring

-   Are the drones able to perform coring?

-   No mention of coring.

-   Explain two types of coring:

    -   Traditional

    -   Vibracore

-   Use

Growth, Incumbents and Patents (2 slides)

As far as I understand, what VCs want to do is fund the growth of
companies that are trying to capture a significant segment of a huge
market.

Fragile time advantage

Unclear goals of growth

Comparison to Satellogic & Amazon

Possible exit strategy using risk management

Operations, Lack of good funding targets & Fuzzy statements (1 slide)

Lack talk about the operational requirements

On-land technician

Transportation

Servicing

Retrieval / Rescue

License to Operate

Could impede dataset building

Could impede on-site jobs

Fuzzy statements

Sonar software developed

Contract with US defense contractor

Machine learning initiated

Cloud architecture design initiated

Final Thoughts (1 slide)

-   The level of details and track record is comparable to that of a
    seed round

-   Repeat the thing about risk management

-   All in all I would be wary of investing in this company. First I
    would have to have a conversation with the management team and ask
    them the following questions:

    -   D

    -   D

-   And then reconsider based on the extra information, but with the
    current level of information I am very sceptical.

-   Of course I would like to know your opinion because I am sure that
    with your experience you probably noticed something I missed.

Questions for Joey

Sources

1.  https://scor-int.org/WG107Report.pdf

2.  https://www.eomap.com/services/bathymetry/

3.  https://www.hydroid.com/products

4.  https://www.kongsberg.com/maritime/products/marine-robotics/autonomous-underwater-vehicles/AUV-eelume/

5.  https://www.kongsberg.com/maritime/products/marine-robotics/autonomous-underwater-vehicles/AUV-hugin/

6.  https://www.kongsberg.com/maritime/products/marine-robotics/autonomous-underwater-vehicles/AUV-hugin-superior/

7.  https://www.boeing.com/defense/autonomous-systems/echo-voyager/index.page

8.  https://www.gebco.net/about_us/contributing_data/tid_grid.html

9.  https://www.gebco.net/data_and_products/gridded_bathymetry_data/gebco_2020/

10. https://www.gebco.net/data_and_products/gridded_bathymetry_data/

11. https://download.gebco.net/

12. José María Arango – Former Chief of Operations @ BO Austral

13. Guillermo Arango – Former VP of IT @ Schlumberger and Former VP of
    Software Governance @ Baker Hughes

14. https://www.intechopen.com/books/advanced-geoscience-remote-sensing/exploring-and-using-the-magnetic-methods

15. https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007%2F978-90-481-8702-7_104

16. https://en.unesco.org/courier/2017-april-june/understanding-oceans

17. https://scor149-ocean.com/#home-section

18. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multibeam_echosounder

19. http://www.teledynemarine.com/searaptor-auv?ProductLineID=15

20. http://www.teledynemarine.com/autonomous-underwater-vehicles-auvs/

21. https://theliquidgrid.com/2019/03/19/underwater-vehicle-classification/

22. https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmars.2019.00283/full

23. https://www.ecagroup.com/en/find-your-eca-solutions/auv

24. https://www.ecagroup.com/en/solutions/a27-e-auv-autonomous-underwater-vehicle

25. https://www.ecagroup.com/en/solutions/alistar-3000-auv-autonomous-underwater-vehicle

26. https://ise.bc.ca/product/explorer/

27. https://ocean-server.com/products/

28. https://ocean-server.com/2019/08/08/iver4-transportability/

29. https://www.bccresearch.com/market-research/advanced-materials/deep-sea-mining-equipment-market-report.html

30. https://www.sea-kit.com/

31. https://www.marketresearchfuture.com/reports/autonomous-underwater-vehicle-market-7384

32. https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsta.2014.0371

33. https://www.bccresearch.com/market-research/advanced-materials/deep-sea-mining-equipment-market-report.html

34. https://scubadiverlife.com/the-ocean-as-a-medical-resource/

35. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4832911/

36. https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20070515005156/en/Hydroid-Wins-Largest-Service-Contract-Date-U.S.


1.  One board outing before the ending of the semester

    a.  Eating

        i.  Barcelona wine bar

        ii. Italian dinner in north end

        iii. Vejigantes (Puerto Rican)

    b.  Bowling

    c.  Mini golf

    d.  Ferrari movie

    e.  Ice skating

2.  Pick a set date of the week to meet. Sunday noon?

    a.  

3.  Discuss collaborations with clubs / companies. Discuss career panel
    or other events with the school.

    a.  Reach out to current sponsors and see if they want to do an
        event

        i.  Reach out to Google to see if they want to host event

    b.  Reach out to future sponsors that have already promised and see
        if they want to do an event

        i.  Iñaki: Talk to Jane Street recruiter to see if they wanna do
            event

        ii. Capital One Q&A Panel

    c.  Pset Night en la Playa

        i.  Psets with playa bowls

    d.  Reach out to companies and see if they’d be interested in
        hosting a tour or “day at the office”

        i.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals

        ii. Boston Scientific

        iii. Boston Dynamics

    e.  Reach out to HBS and set up a career panel with people that did
        business school after engineering

    f.  Reach out to hispanic alumni from Harvard to ask them about how
        they got a job and how the beginning of their career was

    g.  Career panel with engineers that decided to go to medical school
        (maybe with HMS)

    h.  Event at the maker space (maybe making a keychain). Note** last
        time we did this it looked more like people signing up and we
        hand them out at dhalls or something bc not a lot of people
        wanted to go over to the SEC -Ezenia

    i.  Slots

        i.  Slot 1:

            1.  

        ii. Slot 2:

            1.  

        iii. Slot 3:

             1.  

        iv. Slot 4:

            1.  

        v.  Slot 5:

            1.  

4.  Planning the election at the end of the semester. Including pubbing

    a.  Middle or late March release the application and pub

        i.  Make an effort to include freshmen.

    b.  Election during middle of April

    c.  Do board transition before end of semester

        i.  Start new round of corporate sponsor reachout

5.  Tasks:

    a.  Outreach committee

        i.  Add sponsors to website

        ii. Add sponsors to instagram account

    b.  Fill out when2meet for weekly board meetings

    c.  Fill out preferences for events to work on

Aytana and Ana: Preference 1: HBS and HMS panels


Monday, April 15th, 2024

Internal Revenue Service

Austin, TX 73301-0057

To whom it may concern:

I am writing to notify the IRS that I have been assigned a social
security number. Please combine my tax records under this new number.

My complete name is Inaki Arango.

My mailing address is 15 Adams Mail Center, Cambridge, MA.

My ITIN is 985-97-1825.

The social security number that I have been assigned is 392-85-2881.

Please send me a letter confirming that you have made this change.

Sincerely,

INAKI ARANGO


Stanford Upload File

Briefly elaborate on one of your extracurricular activities or work or
family responsibilities. (50-150 words)

I work as a developer and project manager for a startup called Reindi.
Last January, the CEO reached out to me because of my familiarity with a
technology called “blockchain”. The startup is a response to his
personal predicament; two of his children are disabled and it has been
difficult for him to navigate the network of healthcare insurers, manage
health records, and receive reimbursements for treatment. I was touched
by his story and decided to join his effort.

Together we outlined a blockchain-based document storage solution and I
recruited a team to work on the project. We have since been working hard
to bring this solution to life. We have built a platform that allows
doctors to send treatment information directly and securely to clinics
and to streamline reimbursements and are in talks to become a partner of
the national Health Information Bus initiative.

What is the most significant challenge that society faces today? (50
word limit)

An artificial intelligence revolution is underway. Just as the
industrial revolution replaced manual labor with steam engines, this one
will replace our choices with algorithms. We do not understand the
ramifications of these changes but must do so to harness them for the
common good.

How did you spend your last two summers? (50 word limit)

I spent the past two summers developing apps for both fun and profit. In
addition, in 2018 I represented Argentina in the International Science
Olympiad and brought back a bronze medal. In 2019, I joined a field
research team studying the relationship between light intensity and
vegetation development in Panama.

What historical moment or event do you wish you could have witnessed?
(50 word limit)

I wish I could have been at Bletchley Park in the room with Alan Turing
when he finally cracked the Enigma Machine code.

What five words best describe you?

Curious, creative, resourceful, adaptable, persistent.

When the choice is yours, what do you read, listen to, or watch? (50
word limit)

I watch sitcoms on Netflix and HBO for fun, and Explained, a show that
discusses social issues. When commuting I rely on Blinkist to hear about
ideas regarding business or personal development. I read about tech on
Wired and Medium. I listen to country, rap and pop on Spotify.

Name one thing you are looking forward to experiencing at Stanford. (50
word limit)

I am looking forward to the combination of an outstanding academic
program in computer science with the support and opportunities offered
by the Stanford Entrepreneurship Network and its member organizations. I
also want to become involved with CS + Social Good and develop projects
for nonprofits through its Studio program.

Imagine you had an extra hour in the day — how would you spend that
time? (50 word limit).

I would learn Chinese or Hebrew because I believe China and Israel will
lead breakthroughs in artificial intelligence that will revolutionize
our day-to-day life and I would like to contribute to that work.

The Stanford community is deeply curious and driven to learn in and out
of the classroom. Reflect on an idea or experience that makes you
genuinely excited about learning. (100 to 250 words)

While preparing for the Informatic Olympiads in my junior year of high
school I discovered an algorithm lecture series online. I binge-watched
them until I got stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover differences
between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across an article on
its application to analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different
species. I was fascinated by the application of this method across
disciplines and challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I
was learning. That evening I had an epiphany; one of the topics that I
was struggling with the most at school was balancing complicated
chemical equations. I wrote a program that applied classic computer
science to the balancing problem. I started using it in class and my
friends found it very useful. Since that day, I step back at every
opportunity and ask myself how what I am studying connects to what I
know about computer science and how potential connections may change my
understanding of the problem. For example, I am now learning about how
the stock market works and I am intrigued by the idea of building an
autonomous stock trading program.

Virtually all of Stanford's undergraduates live on campus. Write a note
to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that will
help your roommate – and us – get to know you better. (100-250 words)

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The doctor told me I
would have to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. The
vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt. It made me feel
different. I couldn’t play outside because the heat would be unbearable.
I couldn’t run, play sports or ride a bike because a fall could hurt me
considerably. I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently. It felt weird at
first. After years of having worn the vest, not having something
pressing on my chest felt liberating, but after a while, I started
experiencing strong back pain.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but I would lose flexibility for
life. I have thought about it long and hard, and I believe it is worth
the sacrifice. I am proud to say I will undergo the surgery this
February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.

Tell us about something that is meaningful to you and why. (100 to 250
words)

The time I spent with Juan, my first chemistry teacher, was one of the
most meaningful parts of my education. I will always be grateful for his
role in developing my character and passion for science. He invited me
to an after-class science club at a time when I had other interests. I
hesitated, but at his insistence, I gave it a try.

He was different from my other teachers and cared for us on a personal
level. I grew close to him and continued attending the club, becoming
increasingly interested in science. With his support, I qualified for
the International Junior Science Olympiad, but we lost touch because our
training took place at a different institution.

When I came back from the Olympiad I was excited to get in touch, share
the news about my bronze medal, and thank him for his mentorship. I was
devastated to learn that he had just died of a heart attack.

I was consumed by regret at being unable to express my gratitude. When
the school put up a plaque in his name, I cried. That piece of metal did
not do the impact he had on me justice. In his honor, I restarted the
science club, teaching physics, to provide other students with the same
opportunity he had given me.


Salsify

Recommendation: They have a strong team that was able to learn a lot
from leading Endeca (which exited successfully). I cannot understand
what sets them apart other than being more expensive and having a few
extra features, but at this stage, growth is the most important thing,
and they have proven consistently they were able to acquire big clients
and keep them. I believe they will continue to grow. I do not know much
about buying shares from employees during Series X, so I do not know if
a 35% discount is good enough.

Opportunity: Acquire a forward contract on 49,312 shares under option
from Renee Bochman, Salsify’s VP of Customer Engagement since February
2018. She is leaving by the end of year and has time pressure to
exercise. Keeps going back and forth between exercise-only (she likes
Salsify) v. selling everything (she's a bit older, her FA is beating her
up about the eggs-in-one-basket thing).

Purchase price per share of $9.43, a 35% discount to the preferred price
per share of $14.51 (per Pitchbook).

Salsify’s latest round of financing was a $155M Series E closed in
September 2020 at a $650M pre-money and $805M post-money valuation. The
round was led by Warburg Pincus with participation of Venrock.

Previous Rounds:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deal Type      Date           Amount         Pre-Val        Post-Val
  -------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- --------------
  Series D       August 2018    $43M           $265M          $308M

  Series C       January 2017   $30M           $140M          $170M

  Series B       July 2015      $16.6M         $53.02M        $69.62M

  Series A       September 2013 $8M            $13.56M        $21.56M
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Background: Founded in 2012 in Boston, Massachusetts. Raised $252.6M to
date. 444 employees.

Summary: Salsify is the developer of a product experience management
platform designed to drive online products and increase sales. CEO and
CDO previously marketing and data jobs, respectively, at Endeca. Third
co-founder ran product management and marketing or Cambridge Semantics.
Software manages product data handling processes and ensures a single
source of truth for the whole brand, independent of the consumer facing
marketplace.

Pain Point: Consumer buy in a store, through amazon, or through an
independent marketplace, but almost always do their research online.
Wholesalers and distributors do the same. Brands until now did not have
a centralized way to manage all their product data and ensure they are
up to date appearing everywhere (instagram, marketplace, amazon,
supermarkets, etc.).

Product: CommerceXM, a platform for syndicating all the functionality
required to support and grow sales in a modern environment: information
management, assets management, marketplace connectors, digital catalogs,
etc. THeir product is divided into three big groups of functionality:
Retailer / Distributor Selling,Marketplace & D2C Selling, and Product
Management Experience.

Market: MarketsandMarkets estimates the global PIM market size is
expected to grow from USD 9.0 billion in 2020 to USD 16.0 billion by
2025, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 12.2% the forecast
period. According to their Series D retrospective, Salsify is no “PIM
but in the cloud”, they do much more. But because they’re creating a
category, it is a bit hard to estimate market size.

Competition:

1.  Multi-channel:

    a.  Akeneo PIM ($122.1M raised)

        i.  Akeneo is a PIM system that can be used by every type of
            company while Salsify is more leading brand manufacturers,
            retailers and wholesalers, especially one that work with an
            e-commerce multichannel network.

        ii. Lacks Content Syndication and Documentation Management.

        iii. Akeneo’s website is more clear about what they do because
             they include pictures.

        iv. Has a free version.

    b.  inRiver ($2.5M raised)

        i.  A more traditional PIM system with more PIM functionality
            than Salsify and a wider network.

        ii. Salsify is more used by retailers while inRiver by B2B and
            B2c omnichannel commerce strategies that look for one source
            of truth.

        iii. Lacks trining for clients, friendly UX/UI, dashboard
             customization, and data import / export functionalities. If
             you already have a database system, it is pretty difficult
             to merga that from external sources.

    c.  Widen Collective ($3M raised)

    d.  Censhare ($29.55M raised)

        i.  Seems very similar

    e.  Pimcore ($3.5M raised)

        i.  Supposedly a subsetof Akeneo’s functionality

    f.  Catsy

        i.  Similar but focused on asset management

    g.  Stibo STEP

2.  Focused on online marketplaces:

    a.  Episerver ($33.94M raised, $1.16B LBO)

    b.  Plytix ($2.62M raised)

Differentiation/Defensibility: Strong team that was able to learn a lot
from leading Endeca (interpreted from their blogs), good traction with
leading brand using it (CocaCola, Asics, Bosch, L’Oréal, Tyson, gsk,
KraftHeinz, Samsonite, etc.). Cannot fully understand whats set them
apart from the competition other than having a few little helpful
features. They are the most expensive alternative.

Team: 444 full-time employees in 2020. The leadership team consists of
around 12 people:

1.  Jason Purcell (Co-founder & CEO)

    a.  General Manager of eBusiness @ Endeca (Acquired by Oracle) ,
        Director of Windchill Solutions Team @ PTC, WashU St. Louis
        (BSc, Biology & Engineering Science)

2.  Mike Milburn (President)

    a.  Member Of The Board Of Advisors @ ScreenMeet, Chief Customer
        Officer @ Salesforce,

3.  Mary Jefts (CFO)

    a.  CFO @ Unidesk, CFO @ Acquia & CFO @ OpenPages (Acquired by IBM)

4.  Jeremy Redburn (Co-founder & Chief Data Officer)

    a.  Director of Product Management @ Endeca (Acquired by Oracle),
        Software Developer @ IBM & Web Developer @ Audible

5.  Rob Gonzalez (Co-founder & CMO)

    a.  Founding Member @ The Digital Shelf Institute, Director of
        Product Management & Marketing @ Cambridge Semantics & Senior
        Product Manager @ Endeca

6.  Colleen Fuller (Chief People Officer)

    a.  Chief Member @ Chief, Head of Talend and Experience @ Vistaprint
        & Senior Human Resources Manager @ Pearson

7.  Adam Ferrari (Executive Vice President of Engineering)

    a.  Strategic Advisor of Big Data @ Oracle, CTO @ Crisply & CTO @
        Endeca

8.  Lee Feigenbaum (Executive Vice President of Custom Success)

    a.  VP of Marketing & Technology @ Cambridge Semantics, Software
        Engineer @ IBM & BA in Computer Science @ Harvard

9.  Christian Hassold (Vice President of EMEA)

    a.  Community Director of EMEA @ The Digital Shelf Institute, Coach
        @ Alchemist Accelerator, Director of Strategy and Corporate
        Development @ ChannelADvisor & CEO @ HubLogix (Acquired by
        ChannelAdvisor)

Open positions for hiring: Senior Software Engineer (Infrastructure
Tema), Senior Sales Engineer, Sales Recruiter, Product Expert (Support
Engineer) Business Development Representative, Senior Salesforce
Administrator, Senior Account Executive, Senior Implementation
Consultant, Customer Support Specialist, Senior Director (Product
Management), Software Engineer, Marketing Operations Specialist,
Strategic Account Manager, Principal Customer Success Manager, Director
(Global Professional Services Resource Management Office), Marketing
Campaign Manager, Head of Information Security, Technical Customer
Support Manager, Web Designer. Link to full list

Traction: According to this presentation, ARR growth of 544% from end of
2016 to 2019 and revenue growth of 800% from end of 2016 to end of 2019.
Found this job posting that says that the CommerceXM ARR is $100M+.

Business model: They sell their software to Corporations, but could not
find information on pricing and model (SaaS, per user, per product,
etc.). They do not have a free model and they are more expensive than
their competitors.

Go-to-market: Regular B2B sales. In November 2018 the CMO said he wished
he had hired a senior leader in product marketing earlier because they
were pitching to all the companies with largely the same positioning and
messaging.

Press

1.  Salsify Lands $155M Series E as its commerce experience platform
    sees a big surge of business from COVID-19 (TechCrunch)

2.  Salsify names Mike Milburn , formerly Salesforce’s Chief Customer
    Officer, as President (Yahoo Finance)

3.  Salsify and Snap36 partnership creates seamless experience for image
    upload and management to help brands win on the digital shelf
    (Business Wire)

4.  As brands fight for commerce success, salsify grows customer base
    through its commitment to helping them win on the digital shield
    (Business Wire)

    a.  “Major product expansion, acquisition of B2X Partners, second
        consecutive year on Deloitte’s Fast Technology 500, opening of
        Chicago office highlight another year of significant growth for
        Salsify”


Sat 26th of June, 2021 – Vet. Interview Notes

-   They don't trust the log in with google for sensitive information.

-   The "my list" would be useful.

-   They care about how the list is ordered.

-   Go deeper into location

    -   Is it national?

    -   What's the closest location?

    -   TALK TO RESOURCES TO FIGURE THIS OUT

-   See new resources recently added to the app.

-   Click and fix data

    -   Go back to screen but only show slide containing that property

    -   We can add a "skip" button to the form slides to go back to the
        end if everything is filled (this is the case for error
        correction)

-   What if you don't know why an application doesn't turn green?

    -   Best solution would be to find a way for the software to explain
        this graphically.

    -   Have ability to contact rutd technical support.

    -   Have ability to contact orgs directly. Not recommended because
        we resort back to how things where previously.

-   Establish a connection between chat page and resource

    -   Show org name + point person name

    -   Definitely show org logo

-   Another tab within ResourceScreen that redirects to org chat

-   Interested in making multiple locations as interests to also get
    recommendations from that place.

    -   Also enables you to not ask for location services.

-   Dyslexic background color – Optional -> Leverage LectO technology

    -   Dyslexic font

    -   Get accessibility settings from OS

-   How to generate natural network effects for Rutd?

    -   Various prompts throughout the user flow to share Rutd with
        friends.

    -   Visible "request/recommend a resource button" for veterans to
        request the addition of organizations not already available.

-   At the beginning, explain what ID.ME is, why it is helpful, how it
    is secure.

    -   Since we are using third part authentication, the Login page is
        redundant. We could replace the with an ID.ME explanation and a
        button that redirects you to ID.ME.


The film I would most like to see made into a book is Scent of a Woman,
directed by Martin Brest. The story begins when Charlie, a poor high
schooler on a scholarship, gets paid to accompany Frank, a blind retired
army officer played by Al Pacino, to New York. Throughout the movie
Charlie starts to connect with Frank, who at first is resistant to any
of the former’s attempts to get closer to him

In terms of scenery, the movie is not very special. For example, New
York is known by almost anyone. Nevertheless, I think it is important
for the book to paint a graphic and detailed picture of the school
Charlie attends, and all its poshness in comparison with Charlie's
family. Speaking of detail and focusing on certain overlooked parts of
the movie, I think the author of the book could take advantage of
Frank’s seemingly complex and complicated past, and maybe dedicate a few
chapters to explaining it better, especially his childhood and his time
in the army.

In terms of the extension of the movie, it would be really difficult to
write a full-length novel just from the information provided by the
film. The best approach the director could take can be broken up into
two parts. The first one would be to extrapolate the central message
from the film and try to convey it throughout the novel. The second one
would be to isolate the parts of the movie that seem to have a deeper
and richer story, but that clearly could not be told because of a time
constraint, as Frank’s previously mentioned past and Charlie’s
relationship with his classmates.

The movie is about standing up for oneself, about doing what is morally
and ethically correct, independently of what society does. If the book,
however long or short, is able to transmit this message at least as half
as convincingly as the film does, it will surely become a bestseller.


My interest in joining Scholars of Finance (SOF) stems from a deeply
rooted belief in the transformative power of finance. In my tenure at
the VC firm, I wasn't simply observing transactions but was immersed in
the identification of businesses with potential – those that promised
not just economic returns but also had the capacity to drive meaningful
change in society.

My aspirations reach beyond the boundaries of conventional finance. I
envision leveraging financial acumen to foster entrepreneurship, and
eventually, channeling my efforts into the socio-economic development of
Argentina, my homeland. My hope is to play a pivotal role in its
national government, aiding in policy-making and economic strategies
that can uplift and strengthen the nation.

The mission of SOF resonates profoundly with my professional objectives.
The organization's mission of instilling character and integrity in
financial leaders is crucial, and I firmly believe that the right
financial strategies, when executed with ethics and vision, can address
some of the world's most pressing issues.

But being part of SOF is not just about building a professional network
or acquiring new skills; it represents the gathering of individuals who
understand the broader implications of finance as a purpose-driven tool,
and this is the atmosphere that I would like to be part of.

Joining SOF would provide me with unparalleled avenues for growth. From
engaging with industry professionals to mentorship opportunities and
exposure to leadership development programs, I am keen on leveraging
these resources to refine my expertise and contribute effectively to the
finance community.

In short, my desire to be a part of SOF stems from a shared vision for
the future of finance: one that is responsible, ethical, and impactful.
I am enthusiastic to embark on this journey with SOF and collectively
drive meaningful change in the world of finance.

"Curiosity" is a fundamental trait I’ve always tried to nurture. To
"Know the world" and "Seek first to understand, then to be understood"
aligns with my personal philosophy of constant learning. I believe there
is always more to be learned, and that is why we should approach every
situation as an opportunity for growth. This value also highlights the
importance of diverse perspectives in the unending quest for knowledge,
which I believe is essential in the continually evolving field of
finance.

"Impact" is another value that resonates with my aspirations. Doing
excellent work, thinking long term, and striving for balance are
foundational to creating lasting positive change. Especially when our
decisions have far-reaching implications, I see a responsibility to
"Accept nothing less than your best" and to ensure that our actions
leave a positive, enduring legacy. I believe that by consistently
delivering our best, we can generate positive change in our communities
and the broader world.

If I were to write a Wikipedia page, it would be about fire trucks, a
subject rooted in my childhood wonder. The sight of a fire truck racing
down the street, with its sirens blaring, was more than just a spectacle
for me. It sparked my initial curiosity about science. The intricacies
of a fire truck, from its design to its operations, made me question how
things work and why. This early fascination not only kept me glued to
every fire truck I saw but also opened the door to the broader realm of
scientific exploration. As I matured, this innate curiosity became the
bedrock of my academic and professional journey. Creating a Wikipedia
page on fire trucks would give me a platform to share how a child's
simple enchantment can evolve into a profound interest, shaping one's
path and inspiring a lifelong passion for discovery.

If I had to write a Wikipedia page on a topic close to my heart, it'd be
about fire trucks. Throughout my childhood, the sight of a fire truck
racing down the street, with its sirens blaring, was more than just a
spectacle for me. It sparked my initial curiosity about science. The
intricacies of a fire truck, from its design to its operations, made me
question how things work and why. This early fascination not only kept
me glued to every fire truck I saw but also opened the door to the
broader realm of scientific exploration. As I matured, this innate
curiosity became the foundation of my academic and professional journey.
Creating a Wikipedia page on fire trucks would give me a platform to
share how a child's simple fascination can evolve into a profound
interest, shaping one's path and inspiring a lifelong passion for
discovery.


-   Introduction

    -   Story with Kargu drones (⅓ page)

    -   Thesis: There are gaps in the current legal framework that need
        to be addressed by new regulation. Countries should establish a
        legally binding treaty that bans the development, production,
        and use of lethal autonomous weapons. Non-lethal autonomous
        weapons should also be regulated.

    -   TRANSITION: To understand what exactly it is that requires
        regulation we need to understand the technology behind it.

-   Explanation of the technology and the potential of LAWS (½ page)

-   TRANSITION: In the explanation of the technology, leave drone swarms
    for last, then talk about their problems

-   Problems with drone swarms (½ page)

-   TRANSITION: More general problems raised by all autonomous weapons
    are the following

-   Initial problems raised by autonomous weapons

    -   IHL concerns (½ page)

        -   IHL rules violated by LAWS

        -   Tie back to how it impacts policy

    -   Moral and ethical concerns (½ page)

        -   Problems with LAWS

        -   Tie back to how it impacts policy

-   NOTES: These concerns show the reader why we need to regulate these
    weapons and keep the human in the loop.

-   TRANSITION: In response to these concerns not all parties have come
    to the same conclusions regarding the implementation of rules that
    regulate the development, production and use of LAWS.

-   Categorization and analysis of all levels of restrictions and
    relations with each country (½ page). Explain each level and present
    the problems with their opinion until reaching the “max level”.

    -   Level 0 (Source 5: US’ Joshua Dorosin): Non-enforceable
        guidelines / code of conduct.

        -   Use SOURCE 1 (Way Forward) to argue why this is not a good
            idea

    -   Level 1 (SOURCE 6 : Kallenborn): Restricting autonomous
        chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) weapons.

        -   (very likely, since there is a wide range of treaties
            restricting the production, export and use of CBRN weapons -
            Foreign Policy Source)

            -   Disagreement (SOURCE 1)

    -   Level 2 (SOURCE 2: China): Restricting the us, but not the
        development or production of LAWS

        -   Security threats (¾ page) + Arms embargo with UN 548 report

    -   Level 3 (SOURCE 2: Non-aligned Movement, SOURCE 3: Peter
        Maurer): Restrictions on LAWS that require no oversight before
        engaging and on LAWS that target humans. (to be seen)

        -   Accountability gap (¾ page)

            -   New accountability source

    -   Level 4: Full ban on all autonomous weapons.

        -   (very unlikely since key countries have already shown heavy
            opposition to this, like US and Russia)

            -   Disagree using SOURCE 1 (Way forward -> Precedent)

-   Actionable steps to take (1 page)

    -   Steps to take to get a treaty signed

    -   Explanation of consensus of why its hard

    -   Alternatives and examples of previous successes

-   Conclusion Summary of reasons for a ban (⅓ page)

    -   “There is a route within all the alternatives...”

    -   We should push for legislation but be prepared to wait because
        it takes time (source 6).


Herencia (Programación por Diferencias) ^(je) _(je) ^(je) _(je) ^(je) _(je)

Diagrama de Clases

Clases

UML (Unified Modeling Language)

Diagrama de secuencia

Clase

UML

Programación de herencia

Clase padre

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  public class Pokemon {
  protected int vida;
  protected int fuerza;
  public Pokemon(int _vida, int_fuerza) {
  vida = _vida;
  fuerza = _fuerza;
  }
  }
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Clase hijo

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  public class Pikachu extends Pokemon {
  super();
  }
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Polimorfismo

Clases abstractas

Una clase abstracta es la que al menos tiene un método abstracto.

Memes

[]

[]

[]

[]

[]

[]

[]

[]


The Stanford community is deeply curious and driven to learn in and out
of the classroom. Reflect on an idea or experience that makes you
genuinely excited about learning. (100 to 250 words)

-   Harvard cs 50

-   Dynamic programming hard concept - had to overcome

-   String distance

-   Relating it to other areas -> dna

-   Final project - mixing what i had learnt from science olympiads
    (algebraic method) and what i had learnt about computer science

Rev. 1

In the summer of 2018, after I came back from the International Science
Olympiad in the Netherlands, I had some spare time before I went to
Israel for a cultural school trip. That year, I was planning on
participating in the Informatic Olympiads, so I wanted to prepare by
learning more about algorithms and computer science. I looked up
introductory CS courses from universities, remembering I loved a CIS 194
from Penn, found CS 50 from Harvard.

In the beginning, everything went fairly smoothly until I got stuck with
a Dynamic Programming problem. It had to do with calculating the
difference between two different texts in a very fast way, but that’s
not what’s important. What is, is that while I was rewatching the lesson
to figure out if I had missed something, I took notice of how this
algorithm, or steps, could be used to understand the differences between
the DNA sequence of two individuals. My mind was blown wide open, I had
never thought of mixing knowledge from two completely different areas.

This was such a new concept for me, one that I ended up loving and that
interested me in many topics outside computer science. So for my final
assignment, I combined what I had learned in the Science Olympiads and
with what I had learnt in the course, and decided to create a program
that helped my friends and me with schoolwork by automatically balancing
chemical equations.

Rev. 2

Ever since I entered highschool, I have loved competitions. The best
part was what I learned preparing for them. The most common way
highschool competitions take place in Argentina is in the form of
“olympiads”. The two most impactful I’ve participated in are the ones on
Science and in Informatics. Individually, they taught me a lot, but
combined, they had a much stronger impact. Mixing them taught me
something I couldn’t have learned from any single olympiad.

To give some context for the story I’m about to tell, it was summer and
I had just come back from the International Science Olympiad. I was
looking for a way to prepare for the Informatics Olympiad, as it was the
first year I was going to participate, and found a few algorithm
lectures.

I practically binge watched them, until I got stuck on a specific one.
To get out of the rut, I started watching several videos on that same
topic. One of them caught my attention. They mentioned that that
algorithm was used in some biology study. It blew my mind that mind that
such complex disciplines were being mixed.

Quickly after that, I built one of my most useful programs until now. A
chemical equation balancer that use all my knowledge from the Science
and from the Informatics olympiad. Since that day, I take every
opportunity I get to learn about diverse topics I’m interested in and
then, when applicable, try to connect them in some way to computer
science.

Rev. 3

Since I love competition, ever since I entered highschool, I’ve been
competing in several olympiads. My favourite ones are the Informatics
and Science ones.

It was summer and I had just come back from the International Science
Olympiad. I was looking for a way to prepare for the Informatics
Olympiad, as it was the first year I was going to participate, and found
a few algorithm lectures.

I practically binge watched them, until I got stuck on a specific one
that was used to find the difference between two texts. To get out of
the rut, I started researching it, trying to understand how it worked. A
paper on the use of this algorithm for a biology study caught my eye. It
blew my mind that an algorithm created to compare texts was being used
to analyze the difference between the genetic sequence of two different
species.

I decided I wanted to do something like that, so with the algorithms I
had learned from the lectures, I built a program that tackled what I had
the most trouble with in the Science Olympiads, balancing chemical
equations. I shared it with my friends, and found it tremendously
useful. Since that day, I take every opportunity to learn about diverse
topics I’m interested in, and try to connect them with my passion,
computer science.

For example, I’m now researching how the stock market works, so that I
can build a stock trading program that works by itself.

Rev. 4 (T y G)

While preparing for the Informatic Olympiads in my junior year of
highschool I discovered an algorithm lecture series online. I binge
watched them until I got stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover
differences between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across an
article on its application to analyzing DNA sequences of individuals
from different species. I was fascinated by the application of this
method across disciplines and challenged myself to do the same with the
algorithms I was learning. That evening I had an epiphany; one of the
topics that I was struggling most with was balancing complicated
chemical equations. I wrote a program that applied classic computer
science to the balancing problem. I started using it in class and my
friends found it very useful. Since that day, I step back at every
opportunity and ask myself how what I am studying connects to what I
know about computer science and how potential connections may change my
understanding of the problem. For example, I’m now learning about how
the stock market works and I am intrigued by the idea of building an
autonomous stock trading program.


Virtually all of Stanford's undergraduates live on campus. Write a note
to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that will
help your roommate – and us – get to know you better. (100-250 words)

Rev. 1

-   Me gustaría que este fuese un ensayo más personal

-   Respeto a la familia y amigos

-   Famila

    -   Vivo en buenos aires. Mi familia vive lejos.

    -   No tengo familiares viviendo en mi ciudad. Pero todos los
        veranos me encargo de hacer un plan que me permita visitar a
        todos, porque mantenerme conectado con la familia es muy
        importante.

    -   A veces se dificulta porque todos viven lejos.

    -   Mis tíos y primos viven en houston.

    -   Otros tíos y primos viven a 1200km de buenos aires

    -   Una de las personas con la que más disfruto pasaMi abuela vive a
        700km

    -   Todos los veranos armo viajes para ir a visitar a mi abuela, que
        tiene 100 años. Cuento un poco como es la abuela.

    -   Vive sola, sin internet. Disfruto jugar a la canasta.

    -   A veces estamos los 3 nietos juntos y jugamos todos.

    -   Otras vez van a uruguay a visitarlos a los primos

-   Amigos - Viaje de egresados

    -   Me gusta que la gente se pueda bancar en mi

    -   Los amigos para mi son una prioridad.

    -   Estabamos en una fiesta en porto. Nos quedabamos en un hotel

    -   Hilsen se sentía mal, y de pronto dejó de responder los mensajes
        de la novia, que me habló preocupada. Me encargué de que una de
        cadena de llamados hasta que una persona de seguridad lo fuese a
        visitar a la habitación.

    -   Al mismo tiempo, un amigo que se sentía super mal, y que apenas
        se podía parar por una infección (que al llegar nos enteramos
        que era unaplaca bacteriana en la garganta) lo acompañé al
        médico, donde me quedé con la médica explicandole la situación

    -   A penas vino el primer micro, lo acompañé a su habitación y me
        quedé con el hasta que se quedase dormido, y después fui a
        visitar a Hilsen.

    -   Una vez que supe que mis amigos estaban bien, volví y me fui a
        dormir. Para este punto ya eran las 4 de la mañana

    -   Durante la temporada de finales, un amigo estaba muy mal, y me
        invitó a su fiesta final. Era un amigo con el que no había
        hablado en mucho tiempo, por lo que supuse que era algo más
        simbólico, y le importaba que lo acompañase durante momentos
        difíciles. En la fiesta, tuvo un mental breakdown, por sus
        problemas familares. Lo vi y me quedé

    -   Como parte de la comunidad de stanford, me gustaría hacer amigos
        con esta profundidad, y espero que mi compañero de cuarto pueda
        ser uno de esos.

I want to start by mentioning that I am probably not the most outgoing
person you’ve ever met. I don’t have lots of friends as other people do,
but the friends I have are for real. There are few things I value in
life as much as I do friendships. To illustrate this, I want to tell you
a story that not many people know about. It’s about my trip to Brazil,
where many students from Argentina go together with their whole class
and tour for seven days straight just before graduating high school.

To preface the story, a few days before we left for Brazil, I got into
an argument with my girlfriend. We didn’t resolve it before we got
there, and we didn’t really resolve it during our time there either. So
there’s no need to say I wasn’t in the best mood, I probably cried more
that week than in the rest of the year.

One day, before leaving for a night party, a friend commented that he
wasn’t feeling really well. I wanted to stay in the hotel with him, but
wasn’t allowed because I wasn’t actually sick, so I had to go to the
party. An hour after arriving, his girlfriend calls me asking if
something had happened because all of a sudden he stopped answering
texts. I immediately stopped what I was doing and focused on finding a
chaperone that did know the hotel’s number, and ask someone to go to his
room to check if he was alright. I finally did, and even though he said
he was feeling better, I went back as soon as I could and was beside him
until the next morning when he finally felt strong enough to come out of
bed.

This goes to show that no holiday or party comes before my friends and
their well being.

Rev. 3

5 years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis, a bend in the spine. A
doctor had suspected something during a checkup and order an x-ray
study. The day the results came back, my mom walked into my room then I
was playing on the computer and told me. I started to cry, cause I knew
it meant I was going to have to use plastic vest all around my torso for
a long time.

The vest had an important size, so it could be noticed even if it was
under another shirt. At first, people pointed it out, and asked what was
it. I felt different. I couldn’t do things other kids could. While
wearing it, I wasn’t allowed to run, play sports or ride a bike. Every
time I went through airport security I got pulled apart and had to
explain what it was.

A year ago, I was able to remove it, because my spine had stopped
growing. Even though the scoliosis was genetic, I promised myself I’d do
everything in my power to never suffer from it again. I wasn’t going to
let something I had no control over cause me pain.

That same day, I went for the first time ever to the gym. It’s been a
whole year, and I have never stopped attending. I developed a love for
it. It allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

Rev. 4

5 years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The day the doctor told me I
started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to use plastic vest
all around my torso.

The vest could be noticed even if it was under another shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what was it. It made me feel different. I
couldn’t do things other kids could. While wearing it, I wasn’t allowed
to run, play sports or ride a bike. Every time I went through airport
security I got pulled apart and had to explain what it was.

A year ago my spine stopped growing and I was able to remove it. I
promised myself I’d do everything in my power to never suffer from it
again. That same day, I went for the first time ever to the gym. It’s
been a whole year, and I have never stopped attending. I developed a
love for it. It allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

Inaki: ademas podrias decir que tu propia experiencia te ha hecho
sensible al sufrimiento de otros, que te ayuda a comprender a aquellos
que son diferentes, o que tienen discapacidades, ….

Rev. 5

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The day the doctor told
me I started crying. I knew it meant I was going to have to use plastic
vest all around my torso.

The vest could be noticed even if it was under another shirt, so people
pointed it out, and asked what was it. It made me feel different. If it
was sunny, I could almost never go play with my friends outside because
the heat was unbearable. I couldn’t run, and during PE, I wasn’t able to
play sports with the other kids. I basically couldn’t do anything that
may cause me to fall, because hitting the ground with the vest meant I
didn’t have the flexibility to absorb the impact, and I could get badly
hurt. Riding a bike, for example, was completely out of the question.
And every time I went through airport security I got pulled apart and
had to explain what it was.

In the beginning, I didn’t take it at all well. The thought of having a
piece of plastic limiting what I could do caused me anxiety. I would
start hyperventilating and have trouble breathing because the vest was
compressing my chest. WIth time, learned to live with it, to be able to
cope, I took it off for one hour a day, and would take that time to
enjoy, to do whatever I wanted.

After I came to terms with my limitations, time passed quickly, and a
year ago, due to mine spine having stopped growing, I was able to remove
the vest permanently. It felt weird at first. After years of having used
the vest, not having something pressing my chest was liberating. I
started enjoying again all the activities I had lost touch with, but
after a while I started experiencing problems. My back hurt a lot, and
to help mitigate the pain, I stretched everyday with the footer of my
bed.

The day they had removed the vest, I promised myself I’d do everything
in my power to never suffer from it again, so after hearing that my pain
was caused by the lack of muscle supporting my back, I decided to join a
gym for the first time ever.

It’s been a whole year I have never stopped attending. I developed a
love for it. It allows me to put conscientious effort towards fighting a
condition I’ll never be able to get rid of.

In a February I will undergo surgery. The doctors will place two
titanium rods, one on each side of my column, and connect them with
bolts to my spine. I’ve thought for a long time about whether or not to
do it, it scares me tremendously. One wrong move and I could end up
paralyzed. Not only that, but I will have less flexibility, because part
of my spine will be tied in a way. But I’ve decided it’s a move forward.
After the operation, my back pain will almost cease to exist, and I’ll
be able to continue doing physical activity without the fear of damaging
my spine further.

Overall this experience allowed me to grow much more that just
personally. It turned me more sensitive and open minded. I have much
more facility empathizing with other people. As a result, I now try to
find solutions to problems I never would have thought about. MAYBE PONER
LO DE INTI?

Rev. FINAL - 243

Five years ago I was diagnosed with scoliosis. The doctor told me I
would have to wear a plastic vest around my torso for many years. The
vest was a stigma. It was noticeable even under a shirt. It made me feel
different. I couldn’t go play outside because the heat would be
unbearable. I couldn’t run, play sports or ride a bike because a fall
could hurt me considerably. I didn’t take it well at all. I would start
hyperventilating at random times throughout the day.

A year ago, I was able to take it off permanently. It felt weird at
first. After years of having worn the vest, not having something
pressing on my chest felt liberating, but after a while, I started
experiencing strong back pain.

A few months ago I was offered the possibility of surgery: having a
titanium rod attached with bolts to each side of my spine to straighten
it. It would alleviate my back pain, but I would lose flexibility for
life. I’ve thought about it long and hard, and I believe it’s worth the
sacrifice. I'm proud to say I will undergo the surgery this February.

I acknowledge and I am very grateful for the positive effect of those
who supported me and helped me cope. My experience with scoliosis made
me realize how it feels to be different and misunderstood, and recognize
the massive importance of being sensitive to the feelings and
circumstances of others.


Tell us about something that is meaningful to you and why. (100 to 250
words)

-   My education / The amazing oportunities I’ve had until now. Quiero
    resaltar x

-   Storytelling del viaje a holanda

-   Profeosr me invitó a participar

-   Fui subiendo gracias al profesor que me enseñó todo literal

-   Gané el nacional

-   Durante tres meses tuve que ir una smeana por més super lejos a
    entrenarme.

-   Vivía en un hotel con mis compañeros de beca, e iba todos los días a
    la universidad a estudiar

-   Cuando volvía tenía que recuperar el tiempo con las materias del
    colegio secundario

-   Fui a holanda por 15 días y participé en alos exámenes. Conocí
    qgente de todo el mundo

-   Estaba orgulloso de representar mi cultura y de representar el país

-   Volví a la argentina muy contento con una medalla de bronce.

-   Sufrí la terible perdida de un profesor y amigo al año siguiente.
    Siendo para mí tan importante todo lo que él me había enseñado y
    ayudad a crecer en la vida, di las clases de física al año siguiente
    para los nuevos chicos que estaban interesados en las olimpiadas

Rev. 1

I want to talk about Juan, my first physico-chemistry teacher. A week
after we had met, he invited me to a very selective after-class science
club. I wasn’t very interested in science at the time but he insisted,
so I decided to give it a try.

He was different from other teachers. Not only did he make sure that we
understood every topic thoroughly but he was also cared for us on a
personal level. Because of this, I became very close to him and
continued attending the club, becoming more and more interested in
science.

With his help, I qualified for the International Science Olympiads, but
after this, we sadly lost touch as I was training in another city with
the national team.

When I came back from the olympiads all I wanted to do was to find him
and tell him about my bronze medal and what we had accomplished
together. A few days after I arrived though, I got the devastating news
that he had died of a heart attack. I couldn’t believe it at first, I
didn’t want to believe it. I was waiting for summer break to finish to
be able to talk to him again, but now I wouldn't be able to ever do so.
I was wrecked.

I'll be eternally grateful for the role he had in developing my
character and my passion for science. I wasn't able to ever say it to
him, but in his honor, I restarted the science club, to give other
students the same opportunity he had given me.

Rev. 2

I want to talk about Juan, my first chemistry teacher. He invited me to
an after-class science club. I wasn’t very interested in science at the
time but he insisted and convinced me to give it a try.

He was different from my other teachers. Not only did he make sure that
we understood every topic thoroughly but he was also cared for us on a
personal level. I grew very close to him and continued attending the
club, becoming more and more interested in science.

With his help, I qualified for the International Science Olympiads, but
after this, we sadly lost touch as I had to train in another city, with
the national team.

When I came back from the olympiads all I wanted to do was to find him
and tell him about my bronze medal and what we had accomplished
together. I came back during summer break, but before I could talk to
him, I got the devastating news that he had died of a heart attack. I
didn’t want to believe it at first, I was never going to be able to
thank him and tell him that I'll be eternally grateful for the role he
had in developing my character and my passion for science.

I felt that I was never going to be able to return to him favour, so, in
his honour, I restarted the science club, to give other students the
same opportunity he had given me.

Rev. 3

The time I spent with Juan, my first chemistry teacher, is one of the
most meaningful. I'll be eternally grateful for the role he had in
developing my character and my passion for science.

He invited me to an after-class science club when I wasn’t interested,
but he insisted and convinced me to give it a try.

He was different from my other teachers, he cared for us on a personal
level. I grew very close to him and continued attending the club,
becoming more and more interested in science. With his help, I qualified
for the International Science Olympiads, but after this, we sadly lost
touch.

When I came back from the olympiads all I wanted to do was to find him
and tell him about my bronze medal and what we had accomplished
together. But before I could talk to him, I got the devastating news
that he had died of a heart attack.

I didn’t want to believe it at first, I was never going to be able to
thank him and return him the favour, so, in his honour, I restarted the
science club, teaching physics, to give other students the same
opportunity he had given me.

Rev. 4 (T y G)

The time I spent with Juan, my first chemistry teacher, was one of the
most meaningful parts of my education. I will always be grateful for his
role in developing my character and passion for science. He invited me
to an after-class science club at a time when I had other interests. I
hesitated, but at his insistence I gave it a try.

He was different from my other teachers and cared for us on a personal
level. I grew close to him and continued attending the club, becoming
more and more interested in science. With his support, I qualified for
the International Junior Science Olympiad, but we lost touch because our
training took place at a different institution.

When I came back from the Olympiad I was excited to get in touch, share
the news about my bronze medal, and thank him for his mentorship. I was
devastated to learn that he had just died of a heart attack. I was
consumed by regret at being unable to express my gratitude. In his
honour, I restarted the science club, teaching physics, to give other
students the same opportunity he had given me.

Rev. 5

The time I spent with Juan, my first chemistry teacher, was one of the
most meaningful parts of my education. I will always be grateful for his
role in developing my character and passion for science. He invited me
to an after-class science club at a time when I had other interests. I
hesitated, but at his insistence I gave it a try.

He was different from my other teachers and cared for us on a personal
level. I grew close to him and continued attending the club, becoming
more and more interested in science. With his support, I qualified for
the International Junior Science Olympiad, but we lost touch because our
training took place at a different institution.

When I came back from the Olympiad I was excited to get in touch, share
the news about my bronze medal, and thank him for his mentorship. I was
devastated to learn that he had just died of a heart attack.

I was consumed by regret at being unable to express my gratitude. When
the school put up a plaque in his name, I cried. That piece of metal did
not do the impact he had on me justice. In his honour, I restarted the
science club, teaching physics, to provide other students with the same
opportunity he had given me.


Why Stanford?

-   CS + Social Good

    -   They are working on the exact topics that interest me.

    -   CS 21SI -> Applying machine learning for the social good.

    -   Studio Program -> Two quarter projects partnered with an NGO
        helping them develop technology.

-   CS

    -   SAIL Lab for Artificial Intelligence

-   Prof. Gill Bejerano

    -   He is doing research on genomics, and that’s a field I’ve become
        really interested in. -> Problem I want to solve with scoliosis.

-   Stanford Entrepreneurship Network

    -   Cross-disciplinary Healthcare Innovation Partnerships at
        Stanford (CHIPS)

    -   Stanford Entrepreneurs for Latin America (SELA)

-   They care for the students well-being

    -   The Vaden Health Center Well-Being program

Questions

-   Were you part of any international students organization?

-   How would you describe the culture at Stanford? Does it feel weird
    to be a foreigner?

-   Were your professors approachable? Did you feel you could as tem
    things or even talk about topics not related directly to your
    classes?

-   Which part of the Stanford experience do you believe had the biggest
    influence on you?

-   Did you keep in touch with other alumni?


Iñaki Arango

AB/SM Concurrent Master’s Program in Computer Science

Embarking on a graduate degree is a significant decision, motivated in
my case by a combination of passion, curiosity, and strategic planning.
My journey towards a Concurrent Master’s (AB/SM) in Computer Science has
been influenced by prior graduate-level studies, academic interests, and
research goals. I developed a deep interest in the research process
through my engagement in thought-provoking research projects. This
sparked the idea of taking more advanced, research-oriented courses
throughout my time at Harvard, and generated my interest in pursuing an
advanced degree concurrently with my undergraduate training.

My interest in learning more advanced concepts in Computer Science is
driven by the ability of technical ideas to be applied to unrelated
fields with great success. I have seen this firsthand through my
research project CS252R: Advanced Topics in Programming Languages, a
graduate-level program synthesis class. In 252R, we expanded on
cutting-edge published work (e.g., Stokes et al. in Nature Machine
Intelligence) and applied Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to drug design
and biomolecular synthesis. Using MCTS, we combined a library of
molecular building blocks and biochemical reactions to create advanced
chemical compounds that satisfy desired properties, like
blood-brain-barrier permeability and binding affinity to brain targets.
I find it fascinating that the same MCTS algorithm used to synthesize
advanced computer programs can be also applied to generating molecules.
The project underscored the potential for interdisciplinary
technological applications, which when combined with the diverse
collection of coursework that the AB/SM has to offer, can radically
increase my exposure to different fields and expand the impact of my
work.

I also find it impressive that Computer Science theory can shed light on
social problems that would be difficult to analyze otherwise. My
research in CS 136: Economics and Computation showed me how
computational game theory concepts can be used to explain how humans
behave in complex environments. My project focused on the dynamics of
human cooperation, modeling repeated encounters between individuals as
an infinitely-repeated game. The goal was twofold: to identify what
settings lead to cooperative and spiteful behavior, and to verify
through simulation the convergence of agent behavior to theoretically
determined equilibria given specific conditions. By varying the quality
of agents’ memory, we could check whether a better recall of past events
made agents more spiteful, and by varying the discount factor of the
rewards for each iteration we could verify for which ranges certain
strategies were equilibriums. This exploration was not only academically
enriching but also laid the groundwork for future work exploring the use
of game theory to model human behavior and design systems where
individual incentives are aligned with outcomes that are socially
optimal. By tapping into the SM resources and increasing the breadth of
courses I take, I hope to continue to make academic breakthroughs like
this and accelerate my rate of discovery.

One such course that piqued my interest – which I intend to take – is CS
238: Optimized Democracy, which focuses on applying game-theoretic
principles to real-world scenarios, such as national elections. This
course offers an opportunity to understand the strategies of political
parties and explore ways to incentivize voter participation. These areas
align with my broader interest in applying computational methods to
social and political challenges, demonstrating the versatility and
relevance of computer science in contemporary societal issues. Pursuing
the SM concurrently with my undergraduate degree would further
contextualize the theoretical knowledge that I’ve gained from more
fundamental undergraduate courses, exposing me to the many practical
applications of Computer Science. This exposure would be especially
beneficial for a potential future PhD, as I would gain additional
clarity on the areas of research that interest me and that align with my
set of skills, allowing me to produce more impactful research.

There are further professional reasons for pursuing a Master’s degree at
this time. Many roles that interest me post graduation, particularly in
the ever-evolving field of AI/ML, require an advanced degree. The
increasing democratization of knowledge and use of AI as a productivity
tool has raised the bar of complexity for meaningful contributions to
the field. A thoughtful mix of undergraduate and graduate classes would
allow me to not only understand the practical implications of the latest
research in the field, but also to appreciate the theoretical
underpinnings. This training would elevate me from an implementer to an
engineer: someone who can closely follow the field and contribute to it
meaningfully in the form of new models and applications.

Even though academic and professional aspirations are my main drivers
compelling me to complete the AB/SM, financial considerations also play
a role in my decision. As an international student, the financial
landscape of U.S. education presents significant challenges. Doing the
SM together with my AB would allow me to use my existing financial aid
package, making obtaining an advanced degree less financially
burdensome. This aspect removes a significant barrier to my higher
education that international students often face.

On balance, with the above benefits in mind, I believe the AB/SM would
be a valuable opportunity to advance my personal and career goals. My
track record of excelling in rigorous and diverse classes has prepared
me for an overload of courses and increase in rigor. Pursuing a
Concurrent Master’s degree will be not just an extension of my education
but a strategic step towards my ambitions to make significant
contributions to the field of Computer Science and beyond.

My journey is characterized by a deep-seated interest in research and a
desire to apply computational methods to complex, interdisciplinary
problems. As I embark on this new phase of my academic journey, I am
eager and prepared to embrace the challenges and opportunities that lie
ahead. The opportunity of pursuing an AB/SM is filled with potential for
personal growth and academic achievement, and I am excited to see where
this path will lead.


Event Tasks

1.  Board event

    a.  Ruben + Andres: Find ice skating rinks and prices

    b.  Ruben + Andres: Find restaurant and prices nearby ice skating
        rink

2.  Sponsor event

    a.  Reach out to current sponsors and ask if they would like to host
        an event

3.  Future sponsor event

    a.  Iñaki: Talk to JS Campus team ✅

    b.  Kassandra: Ask Capital one what kind of event they would like to
        host and when / HRT / Bloomberg

4.  PSet Night en la Playa

    a.  Paloma + Jasai: Go to Playa bowls and ask for the prices of

        i.  Hosting an event there with food

        ii. Buying food in bulk to go

5.  Company tour (Red Hat, Feb 7th) ✅

    a.  Miranda + Celeste: Reply to the email and organize the visit

    b.  Miranda + Celeste: Draft up a pub email for people outside board
        also going to visit

    c.  Miranda + Celeste: Create pub tracker

6.  HBS Career Panel

    a.  Ana + Aytana: Reach out to HBS to see if they are interested in
        collaborating with us on the panel.

7.  Hispanic Alumni Panel

    a.  Anna + Francisco: Anna and Francisco should meet and discuss
        ideas; also it’d be good to have an initial list of potential
        speakers.

8.  Medschool Panel

    a.  Ana + Aytana: Reach out to Open Bio ✅

    b.  Ana + Aytana: Reply to Open Bio ✅

    c.  Ayush Noori said he’d be willing to talk

    d.  It could be a good idea to reach out to OpenBio, since they
        probably have med school connections

9.  Make space event

    a.  Celeste + Anna: Talk to the people in charge of the maker space
        to see what is required to set up an event at the maker space,
        and what things we could organize ✅

    b.  Celeste + Anna: Ask about specific times when the event could be
        hosted.

Tasks

1.  Iñaki


----- Previous experience -----

My previous experience can be summarized in 4 groups:

1. Architecture and development of web platforms. I have past experience
architecting and developing platforms from scratch for startups and
NGOs. These usually include multiple frontends (React, React Native,
Vue) and a GraphQL backend (Redwood, NestJS, TypeScript, Prisma,
MongoDB, PostgreSQL). In some instances, this also includes smart
contract development.

2. Algorithmic Work. Examples: Approximated the TSP problem to create
delivery routes for a fleet of trucks (TypeScript, C++), developed an
algorithm that built information graphs for patients from EHR databases
(TypeScript), and parallelized matrix multiplication and graph analysis
code (C++).

3. Data Analysis. Examples: Analyzed stock prices, predicted US and
Japanese bond yields, fitted parametric models to real-world data,
removed seasonality from time-series data, and improved the clarity of
satellite images (Python, Pandas, R).

4. The intersection of ML and SWE. Examples: Built custom-built CI/CD
pipelines to streamline model training and deployment (TypeScript,
Commander, AWS Step Functions), and created a software platform
leveraging NLP to automate hospital patient intake (Redwood, ChatGPT,
SendGrid).

If needed, I can provide more information on any of these points.

----- Interests for this internship -----

I am becoming increasingly interested in machine learning models due to
my courses in statistics and would love to develop a stronger skillset
in that area. This includes problem definition, model creation and
training, as well as the development of the infrastructure required to
take said models to production.

Another topic of interest is low-level programming, especially when used
for designing low-latency systems. My experience is almost exclusively
implementing algorithms in C++, but it would be awesome to see how a
full system can be implemented at low level (network IO, database
operations, etc.).


Resume

Upload.

Why would you like to join HPAIR? What do you hope to bring to the org?
(200 words max)

Joining HPAIR presents an exciting opportunity to meet and spend time
with a diverse group of people that I would not be able to meet
otherwise. It seems like a great community, completely separate from
majors or academics, that works together to make the conferences come to
life. I'm even more excited about joining the club because some friends
who have been involved for a while have told me some really great things
about their experiences there, and how joining was one of the best
decisions they’ve made at Harvard. I plan on contributing to what makes
this club great, the energy that makes it not just a hub of Asian and
international relations but also a warm, welcoming community where
lasting friendships are formed and where everyone feels like they
belong. I plan to bring laughs, smiles, hugs. Additionally, my
involvement in organizing HPAIR conferences and putting my technical
knowledge to work would not only aid in the smooth execution of these
events but also serve as a valuable learning opportunity for me to
deepen my understanding of international relations. This aligns
perfectly with my desire to be part of an organization that is both
intellectually stimulating and socially enriching.

What is your favorite fruit and why? (100 words max)

My top three fruits are green apples, passion fruit and kiwi, but if I
have to pick a single one, I would choose passion fruit every single
time. My mouth waters every time I see one because it has the perfect
combination of flavor with sourness. My favorite way of consuming it is
by taking all the pulp from inside, drinking the remaining juice and
then chewing on the seeds until they make their signature cracking
sound.

Remnants of the passion fruit that was consumed in the making of this
deliverable: https://photos.app.goo.gl/pW5MMS3qGcpvVKfT7

I have completed and submitted the technical deliverable found at deliv
repo. (Follow the instructions in the README.md)

Yes.

Vercel deployment link

https://hpair-deliv.vercel.app/

GitHub repo link

https://github.com/inakineitor/hpair-deliv

Briefly describe what you did.

1.  Setup

    a.  Set up Firebase and FireStore.

    b.  Added consistent formatting for code and Prettier.

    c.  Moved components out into their own files and folders.

    d.  Fixed CSS bugs. Use of kebab-case “padding-top” and
        “padding-bottom” is not allowed. Replaced by their camelCase
        equivalents.

2.  Functional Features

    a.  Added ability for users to search through the database, enabling
        faster finding of contacts. A user can now use fuzzy search over
        emails, descriptions and names.

    b.  Added form validation for the entry modal. A user must now
        always input a name for an entry, and if present, the email
        address must be valid. This system can be extended to enforce
        any policy on the input data.

3.  Visual Appeal

    a.  Improved visual appeal by allowing users to switch between light
        and dark mode. When loading the page it first queries the OS for
        the user’s preferences, and defaults to light if the preferred
        theme could not be queried. After that using the toggle in the
        top right the user can switch between themes.

4.  Other Improvements

    a.  Added an icon so that people can see their profile picture next
        to their name if they logged in using a provider, such as
        Google.

I understand that HPAIR will be a significant time commitment of up to
5-10 hrs/wk. I understand that should I be accepted I will be expected
to attend all required meetings. In addition, I understand that I will
be required to staff the Harvard conference in early February.

Yes.

[]


REINDI

Tech Stack

Junio 16, 2020

1)  BACKEND

    -   Estructura

        -   No usamos micro servicios, para poder iterar rápido

        -   Monolítico

    -   GRAPHQL para interconectar

    -   Base de Datos POSTGRESQL

    -   NEST JS (framework que usa TYPESCRIPT) modularizado

        -   Autenticación

        -   Usuarios

        -   Documentos

    -   Servidor tipado

    -   Los modelos de la base de datos y las llamadas las hacemos con
        TYPEORM (typescript)

    -   Base Server hecha

        -   Modulo de autenticación de usuarios

        -   Modulo de autorización de permisos

    -   Diagrama de Base de Datos listo

    -   Iñaki comparte un documento a Gonzalo

    -   Los componentes de VUEXY utilizan por detrás VUEBOOTSTRAP

2)  FRONTEND

    -   VIEW JS (similar a REACT), version View3

    -   Template VUEXY (tiene versión en REACT también), que incluye las
        siguientes funcionalidades:

        -   Componentes para armar un dash board atractivo

        -   Sistema de acceso para comprobar los permisos de cada
            usuario

        -   Login, autenticación, seguridad

    -   Diseño armado de MVP. VUEXY tiene los dashboards vacíos, no
        contiene los diseños. No tiene la programación es estático.

    -   Autenticación con AUTH0

3)  HOSTING

    -   Backend configuración completa en DOCKER (DOCKER START para
        probar)

    -   Server configurado para HEROKU

    -   VERCEL configurado (producción, prueba, prototipado)

4)  BLOCKCHAIN

    -   ETHEREUM smart contracts

    -   IPFS tecnología para guardar cosas en blockchain

    -   Tiempo en crear y confirmar las transacciones (subir documentos)
        es lento y tiene limites de caracteres

    -   Lo que se guarda en Blockchain es mas caro

    -   Desarrollar en Blockchain es mas lento

    -   Para que el la donación sea descentralizada hay que usar
        METAMASK o WEB3, pero los navegadores no incorporan esa
        tecnología por default todavía. Hay que instalarla aparte en
        forma de extensión.

    -   Pero problema son las comisiones de blockchain. Además de ser
        caras, las tiene que pagar el que inició la transacción (ie. el
        usuario), lo que no resulta conveniente. Ethereum 2 trae fees
        más bajos y la posibilidad de que sean pagos por el contrato en
        sí, pero todavía no salió y los beneficios no superan a todo El
        resto de las desventajas de blockchain.


Tell us about a person who has influenced you in a significant way.

Rev FINAL (G T)

My first chemistry teacher, Juan, was one of the most influential people
in my life. He saw potential in me at a time I was not very interested
in science. A week after the first class of the year, he invited me to
an after-class science club, I decided to give it a try.

The club brought together students interested in competing in the Junior
Science Olympiads. The first day I attended, I was surprised by the
members’ commitment and the level of complexity of the topics Juan
explained. He made sure that I was able to keep up with the workload. He
lent me a pile of books so that I could catch up on weekends. He was
different from my other teachers. Not only did he make sure we
understood each topic thoroughly, but he also cared for us on a personal
level.

I grew close to him and continued attending the club, becoming more and
more interested in science. With his mentorship I won round after round
of competitions until I qualified for the International Junior Science
Olympiad. After that I had to train away from my home town with the
national team and dedicated trainers, so we sadly lost touch.

We were all away from home, and felt overwhelmed by the intensity of our
training and the responsibility of having to represent our country and
we became very close. The need to cope made us develop a strong team
identity and the rigor of the training made us all develop endurance and
persistence.

After a few months of this, we traveled to the Netherlands to compete
and I came back with a bronze medal. The first person I wanted to tell
was Juan, but I soon got the news that he had died of a heart attack. I
was devastated. I would never be able to thank him for everything.

My relationship with Juan was one of the most meaningful of my life. I
will always be grateful for the role he played in developing my
character and my passion for science. It was in his honour that I
restarted the science club by teaching physics, to provide other
students the same opportunity he had given me.


Parte individual

1.  Sionismo Político (Hertzl)

    a.  ¿Qué tipo de Estado deseaban?

  El objetivo oficial era “establecer para el pueblo judío un hogar
  seguro, pública y jurídicamente en Eretz Israel”.

b.  ¿Cómo planeaban llegar a su meta?

  Hertzl creía que la diplomacia era el camino correcto para conseguir
  lo que quería. Comenzó por dirigirse a grandes filántropos judíos y
  líderes mundiales, como el Papa Pío X y el Emperador de Alemania, con
  el fin de conseguir dinero y legitimidad política para establecer
  colonias en Palestina.

  Los “medios prácticos” que definieron para conseguir sus metas fueron:

-   La promoción de asentamientos judíos de agricultores (lo que serían
    los kibutz), artesanos, comerciantes, en Eretz Israel.

-   La federación de todos los judíos en grupos locales o generales, de
    acuerdo con las leyes de los diferentes países.

-   El fortalecimiento del sentimiento y la conciencia judía.

-   Medidas preparatorias para el logro de los subsidios gubernamentales
    necesarios para la realización de los objetivos sionistas.

    a.  ¿Quienes eran sus líderes?

Teóricos principales:

-   Hertzl:

    a.  ¿Cuáles eran los conceptos fundamentales?

  El querer un Estado se basaba en que el antisemitismo, la supuesta
  “enfermedad de las sociedades diaspóricas”, reaparecería
  periódicamente, atentando contra la igualdad buscada por la
  Emancipación, y Hertzl quería encontrar una solución estable,
  especialmente después de presenciar el caso Dreyfus.

2.  Sionismo Socialista (Godon - Borojov)

    a.  ¿Qué tipo de Estado deseaban?

  Un Estado socialista sin propiedad privada conformado al principio por
  comunidades agrícolas que trabajasen y defendiesen la tierra. Donde
  los obreros hayan ganado la lucha de clases y haya un fuerte
  proletariado establecido en las ciudades.

b.  ¿Cómo planeaban llegar a su meta?

  No creían que se pudiese crear un estado judío con simplemente pedir a
  la comunidad internacional de países ni pidiéndole a los países
  poderosos. Creían que la única forma de crear una Estado era promover
  la lucha de clases de los obreros en Palestina, para que formasen
  kibutzim (comunidad agrícola) para trabajar y proteger la tierra.

c.  ¿Quienes eran sus líderes?

  Pensadores principales:

-   Moisés Hess: Fue un filósofo alemán de origen judío, auto de Roma y
    Jerusalén (1862), Historia santa de la humanidad (1837) y Triarquía
    europea (1841).

-   Dov Ber Borojov: Fue escritor y pensador soviético (ucraniano) de
    origen judío. Plantea combinar el concepto socialista con el de
    judaismo nacional (EXPANDIR).

-   Aarón David Gordon: Plantea que el verdadero trabajo es aquel en el
    que se trabaja la tierra físicamente (EXPANDIR).

-   Berl Katzenelson: Opina que si los judíos hacen lo mismo que hacen
    los polacos, y oprimena a los árabes de la misma manera que los
    polacos oprimen a los judíos, no aprendieron nada de su hisotria.
    Quiere un país en el que no haya ni opresores ni oprimidos. Vivir a
    la par de los árabes.

Personajes importantes:

-   David Ben-Gurión: Principal fundador del Estado de Israel y el
    Primer Ministro del mismo país.

    a.  ¿Cuáles eran los conceptos fundamentales?

  No creían en el concepto de dueño de la tierra. Creían que el que la
  trabajaba la controlaba. Les importaba que el trabajo fuese trabajo
  hebreo, que el personal de los kibutzim sean judíos, pero no le
  molestaba convivir con los árabes. Creían tanto en la conquista del
  trabajo como la conquista de la seguridad. La conquista del trabajo la
  ganan aquellos que trabajan la tierra y que por lo tanto pasan a
  controlarla, y la conquista de la seguridad la ganan aquellos que
  puede cuidar sus asentamientos sobre la tierra.

  Los kibutzim cumplían la doble función de trabajar la tierra y de
  protegerla, ya que había gente armada en ellos.

3.  Sionismo Revisionista (Jabotinsky) SACAR INFO DEL MÓDULO 42

    a.  ¿Qué tipo de Estado deseaban?

  Querían el mismo tipo de estado que los sionistas políticos, en
  general. Ver punto .d para más información.

b.  ¿Cómo planeaban llegar a su meta?

  El Sionismo Revisionista propuso desarrollar grupos activos que
  tomaran por sus propios medios la creación del Estado judío en la
  Tierra de Israel.

  Jabotinsky creó tres ramas, una juvenil (“Betar”), una política
  (“Organización Sionista Revisionista”), y una paramilitar (“Etzel”,
  siglas de “Irgún Tzevaí Leumí”, que significa Organización Militar
  Judía).

  El Irgún sostenía la política importante dentro del Sionismo
  Revisionista de la “auto-defensa”, que se oponía a la política de
  contención del Sionismo Político y proponía combatir de forma armada
  contra las actividades bélicas árabes y las presiones británicas.

c.  ¿Quienes eran sus líderes?

-   Vladimir Jabotinsky: Fue periodista, escritor y líder político
    fundador del movimiento revisionista.

    a.  ¿Cuáles eran los conceptos fundamentales?

  El Revisionismo declaraba que los esfuerzos del Sionismo Político no
  eran suficientes, y que no sostenían como objetivo la creación de un
  “Estado Judío”, sino de un “Hogar Nacional”.

4.  Sionismo Espiritual/Cultural (Ajad Haam) VER MÓDULO 42 JUDERÍAS
    (complejo de inferioridad de la judería polcaca)

    a.  ¿Qué tipo de Estado deseaban?

  Uno en el cual los pobladores no solo busquen su salvación personal,
  sino que se den cuenta, y apoyen con fuerza la idea de la
  reconstrucción del pueblo judío mediante la búsqueda de un nuevo
  hogar.

  Ajad opina que los colonos “deben estar comprometidos espiritual y
  culturalmente con el movimiento sionista y con los valores y
  tradiciones del pueblo judío”.

b.  ¿Cómo planeaban llegar a su meta?

  No proponen ningún método específico distinto al de el resto de las
  corrientes, per si aclaran, como es explicado en el punto .d, que Ajad
  opina que sólo los judíos “que tengan conciencia nacional, y no
  aquellos que huyen del peligro” deberían emigrar a la Tierra de
  Israel.

c.  ¿Quienes eran sus líderes?

-   Ajad Ha’am: Fue un escritor y periodista. Su ensayo más conocido fue
    “Lo ze hadérej” (“No es este el camino”), que constituyó la base del
    Sionismo Espiritual.

    a.  ¿Cuáles eran los conceptos fundamentales?

  Critica la postura del Sionismo Político, en que la creación de un
  Estado judío debería ser un medio y no un fin.

  Ajad además considera que si la actividad colonizadora “no está
  acompañada de una fuerte acción educativa, terminará colapsando.

  También considera que el problema con los judíos, no es el
  antisemitismo, y por lo tanto no es un problema de integridad como
  pueblo sino uno de asimilación, es decir, uno espiritual y cultural.
  Cree que como Palestina no es capaz de albergar a todos los judíos del
  mundo deben mudarse a ella solo los que “tengan conciencia nacional y
  no aquellos que huyen del peligro”.

  Propone que el Estado de Israel de radique como un centro espiritual
  que irradie a todas las comunidades judías de la diáspora.

5.  Sionismo Religioso (Alkalay - Kalisher)

    a.  ¿Qué tipo de Estado deseaban?

  Mirar el punto .d.

  Tzvi Kalisher planteó que el renacimiento de Israel vendrá a través
  “del despertar del pueblo y la unión de las diásporas en la Tierra de
  Israel”.

  Abraham Itzjak HaCohen Kuk consideraba que el asentamiento en la
  Tierra de Israel es el comienzo de la redención.

b.  ¿Cómo planeaban llegar a su meta?

  No tenían un camino especificado, pero de esta corriente surgió el
  movimiento Hapoel Hamizraji, que bajo el lema “Torá vaavodá” (“Torá y
  trabajo”), centró su labor en el asentamiento rural ortodoxo.

c.  ¿Quienes eran sus líderes?

-   Yehuda Alkalay: Fue un famoso rabino del siglo XIX, precursor del
    Sionismo Religioso.

-   Tzvi Kalisher: Fue un rabino reconocido como uno de los precursores
    del Sionismo Religioso.

-   Abraham Itzjak HaCohen Kuk: Fue el Gran Rabino de Israel desde 1921.

    a.  ¿Cuáles eran los conceptos fundamentales?

  El Sionismo Religioso se basa en la “fusión de la religión y la
  nacionalidad judía, y que aspira a restaurar tanto la libertad
  política como la religión judía a la luz de la Torá y sus preceptos”.

Parte grupal

1.  Forma un grupo de 5 integrantes

2.  Señala las principales caracterísiticas de cada uno de los
    movimientos sionistas desarrollados en el cuadernillo.

3.  Tu grupo recibirá una corriente del sionismo y, a partir de ella
    deberá:

    a.  Escribir un discurso apuntado a la Organización Sionista Mundial
        en 1920 en el que se explique por qué ese modelo de sionismo es
        el indicado.

    b.  Un poster propagandístico cuyo concepto sean las ideas
        principales de la corriente asignada.

    c.  Prepararse para un Congreso Sionista.


I am always looking for new ways of meeting people outside of my normal
routine. I love coding, speed running through little complicated
projects, and working with others, so TreeHacks would be a great way of
connecting with new people with whom I am bound to share interests.

I want to learn from people more experienced than me about deployment to
production and how to streamline development processes so that less
people can handle more stuff, but I also want to share the excitement I
have about technology with people newer to the field. I started
programming as a hobby but what kept me going in the beginning was
seeing was passionate my friend were about it.

Finally, the tracks available this year also particularly align with my
interests, and I look forward to meeting other people at Stanford
(inside and outside of Treehacks) that are also interested in
ClimateTech.

Dawdawd

Right after finishing high school I met Cristian, the operator of a
waste management company that explained to me how fat behind we are in
reaching our recyling and waste reduction targets.

I decided to join him and develop a solution that leveraged modern
technologies to provide the world with more effective and efficient
recycling initiatives.

This project evolved into Recyco, a SaaS platform that provides local
governments with the digital infrastructure that they need to operate
and optimize their recycling efforts. It provides citizens with an app
that teaches the the why and how of recycling, and lets them request for
their recyclables to be picked up straight from their home.

The information collected is also used by companies to easily acquired
recycled plastic and increase the use post-consumer recycled material in
their products.

In March of this year Recyco will be rolled out as the official
recycling solution for tens of thousands of people across 5+ cities in
Argentina, with Unilever, Nestle and Mondelez among our clients and
project sponsors.

Dawd

A year before coming to the US I had to get back surgery because my
scoliosis condition was getting progresively worse. Doctors put a
titanium rod in my back to keep it straight, and for a while after my
friends called me the kebab guy since I my body had a metal stick going
through it.

Dawd

I was born and raised in Argentina, and moved to the States just before
starting college around a year and a half ago. So far I've enjoyed it
very much :)


Why do you want to come to Treehacks 2024?

TreeHacks is an amazing opportunity to meet new people, learn new
skills, and practice delivering (semi) polished products with really
tight timelines. One of the aspects I look forward to is the friendships
that naturally form when everyone is working hard, together, for long
hours during the Hackathon. Last year, I got to meet really cool people
in the Gates building that I ended up collaborating with later in the
year after coming back to school.

I am also interested in the learning aspect of TreeHacks, where you are
quickly exposed to a variety of up-and-coming promising technologies and
some of the people representing the companies working on them. It is fun
to attend the booths to learn more about their vision and then taking
that into account when thinking of a project idea for the competition.

Tell us about a project you’ve enjoyed working on, technical or
non-technical.

I am currently working with a friend on a project to synthesize new
drugs that can target a molecule and permeate the blood brain barrier,
as well as being non-toxic and complying with a number of other
requirements that a drug administered to humans has to adhere to. We are
using stochastic search methods to explore the space of easily
synthesizable compound and using ML to train property predictors that
determine the likelihood that a generate compound would be fit for our
purpose in real life. This is exciting because I'm delving into the
world of computational biology, which I hadn't explored before, and
because it turns out that molecule generation algorithms are very
applicable to solve theoretical CS problems in the domain of program
synthesis.

What’s something you’re excited to work on in the next 10 years? Dream
big!

I am interested in learning more about game theory and how to take
individual decisions into account to make mechanisms that align people's
incentives with the overarching goal of the mechanism. I want to see how
this can be applied to government in Argentina, and want to get
involved, as an advisor or politician, in the design of public policy in
my home country.


How did you discover your intellectual and academic interests, and how
will you explore them at the University of Pennsylvania? Please respond
considering the specific undergraduate school you have selected.
(300-450 words)

Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
across an article on a text manipulation algorithm for analyzing the DNA
sequences of individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the
application of this method across disciplines and challenged myself to
do the same with the algorithms I was learning. Since that day, I step
back at every opportunity and ask myself how what I am studying connects
to what I know about computer science and how potential connections may
change my understanding of the problem.

In the past few years, I have created several programs. However, it was
through the development of a navigation app for the blind community and
a health reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
developed a passion for applying computer science to health and for the
benefit of society.

Penn’s research focus on data science presents an incredible opportunity
to do this. I want to work alongside the likes of Lyle Ungar, whose new
algorithms and techniques for measuring the mental and physical
well-being I am very interested in. The department’s research on medical
systems is also something I would like to witness first-hand because of
its close work with patients in treatment.

Moreover, I am excited at the idea of working under faculty in the
Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences. I believe the work being done
there on the fairness of machine learning algorithms will play an
important role as these algorithms are implemented more and more widely.

With everything I learn from these opportunities I want to start a
company that generates a positive social impact. Penn can provide me
with the tools necessary to achieve this through its Entrepreneurship
and Innovation specialization.

Beyond the classes that are part of the program, I would also like to
become involved in a startup and participate in the assortment of
competitions, like STARTUP Challenge, and showcases at the Wharton
school. I am very interested in the possibility of working full-time on
my own project as part of the Summer Venture Award.

At Penn, learning and growth happen outside of the classrooms, too. How
will you explore the community at Penn? Consider how this community will
help shape your perspective and identity, and how your identity and
perspective will help shape this community. (150-200 words)

In high school, I represented Argentina in the International Junior
Science Olympiad and met peers from around the world. Prior to the
competition, I was an introverted kid. However, the experience made me
far more open and extroverted because I loved interacting with and
learning from my fellow competitors. I grew a great deal from being in a
small cohort at the Olympiad as well as on a specialized track in my
highschool and look forward to participating in the Assembly of
International Students, which I hope will be a tight-knit environment
within which to form meaningful relationships with students in all areas
of study and from all over the world. I hope to become an active
participant in it and continue to learn from my peers.

Additionally, I have scoliosis, a condition that forced me to wear a
plastic vest around my torso for years. It was very noticeable and made
me feel different. I could not play with friends and strangers would
steer away in public. This introduced me to the feeling of being
different and made me recognize the importance of sensitivity to the
feelings and circumstances of others, something that I hope to bring to
campus.


General Introduction

-   Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?

    -   Dónde vivo

    -   I like computer science, specially applying to other areas.

    -   For fun I like to watch netflix and youtube, which I also use to
        learn about programming. I use Blinkist to read about personal
        development, business or philosophy books.

    -   DDDDSDDDD

-   How would your friends describe you?

  I have a couple of friends group very different from each other
  personality-wise. They would note different qualities in me, but I
  believe all would agree that I am always there when I am needed. On my
  list of priorities, friends are one of the highest things on the list,
  so I’ve gone to someone’s house at three in the morning when they’ve
  had problems with their family.

-   What would you like the Admissions office to know that might not
    appear in your application?

  Same as above

-   What experiences have you had with people who are different from
    you?

  Cuando crecí por las olimpiadas internacionales.

Academic and Personal interests

-   What do you most like learning about?

  Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
  across an article on a text manipulation algorithm for analyzing the
  DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was fascinated
  by the application of this method across disciplines and challenged
  myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning. Since that
  day, I step back at every opportunity and ask myself how what I am
  studying connects to what I know about computer science and how
  potential connections may change my understanding of the problem.

  In the past few years, I have created several programs. However, it
  was through the development of a navigation app for the blind
  community and a health reimbursement platform for people with
  disabilities that I developed a passion for applying computer science
  to health and for the benefit of society.

-   How do you learn best?

  I learn the best through practice, so when I want to learn a new
  subject, I look up a bit of theory, and then try to apply it in
  someway. In topics related to CS, it usually ends up being a
  prototype, but it may vary in other areas.

-   What is your favorite part of your school experience?

  HABLAR DE CÓMO CRECÍ CON LA GENTE DE TIC

-   What topics or assignments have you found particularly intriguing?

  EXPLICAR LO DE OLIMPIADAS Y CS50 y como desarrolló mis gustos

-   Is there anything that you would change about your high school
    experience?

  Yes, there is. I had a small but tight group of friends at first. At
  first I didn’t think of talking to new people and get to know them.
  After a personal change I underwent two years ago, that started
  happening, and in these last year and a half I made more friends than
  in the other four years combined. I’ve met some truly amazing people
  that have taught me many things, and that have been with me in the
  good and in the bad situations.

-   How do you spend your time when you're not in school?

  I have a few activities outside of school. The first thing I do when I
  leave school is go to the gym. I have acute genetic scoliosis and for
  years I used a rigid plastic vest around my torso, and hip to keep by
  back upright. When I stopped using a supporting vest a year and a half
  ago, I started feeling an immense amount of pain. My muscles had
  weakened, and that coupled with the strange shape of my column made me
  constantly feel uncomfortable. I go to the gym five days a week now to
  fight that sensation and to strengthen my back. In February I will
  finally undergo surgery, and I want to have my back strong enough to
  withstand it.

-   What's the biggest challenge you've overcome?

  LAS OLIMPIADAS INTERNACIONALES Y LA PREPARACIÓN

-   Gente que no conocía

-   El proyecto de gente con alzheimers y la escuela al mismo tiempo

-   Un montón de tareas hasta tarde

-   Los viajes una semana por mes para entrenar. Una carga horaria tan
    grandes.

-   Nunca haber tenido clases de física o química y alcanzar el nivel
    internacional. Todo el esfuerzo que requirió.

-   Finalmente gané la medalla de bronce.

Penn’s resources: what they know, what they’ve heard, what they’ll love

-   Why Penn? How did you first hear about Penn?

  I heard about Penn in a surprisingly strange way. I was watching a
  show on netflix called Pretty Little Liars. One of the girls on the
  show mentioned that she wanted to attend UPenn and explained that it
  was a top tier university. I was curious because I had never heard of
  it, and

  WHY PENN ANSWERED BELOW

-   What draws you to the undergraduate school/program to which you’ve
    applied?

    -   I enjoy mixing several subject with computer science. I don’t
        really enjoy studying it isolation.In the past few years, I have
        created several programs. But it was through the development of
        a navigation app for the blind community and a health
        reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
        developed a passion for applying computer science to health and
        for the benefit of society.

    -   THEY HAVE A BIG FOCUS ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND DATA
        SCIENCE, BUT APPLIED TO SOLVING SOCIETY’S PROBLEMS

    -   Penn’s research focus on data science presents an incredible
        opportunity to do this. The department’s research on medical
        systems is also something I would like to witness first-hand
        because of its close work with patients in treatment.

    -   Moreover, I am excited at the idea of working under faculty in
        the Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences. I believe the
        work being done there on the fairness of machine learning
        algorithms will play an important role as these algorithms are
        implemented more and more widely.

-   What on-campus opportunities are you most excited about?

    -   Assembly of International Students

    -   I grew a great deal from being in a small cohort at the Olympiad
        as well as on a specialized track in my highschool and look
        forward to participating in the Assembly of International
        Students, which I hope will be a tight-knit environment within
        which to form meaningful relationships with students in all
        areas of study and from all over the world. I hope to become an
        active participant in it and continue to learn from my peers.

    -   With everything I learn from these opportunities I want to start
        a company that generates a positive social impact. Penn can
        provide me with the tools necessary to achieve this through its
        Entrepreneurship and Innovation specialization.

  Beyond the classes that are part of the program, I would also like to
  become involved in a startup and participate in the assortment of
  competitions, like STARTUP Challenge, and showcases at the Wharton
  school. I am very interested in the possibility of working full-time
  on my own project as part of the Summer Venture Award.

-   D

Share your Penn experience

-   What questions do you have?

    -   (ASK IF HE WAS AN INTERNATIONAL STUDENT FIRST) Were you part of
        the International Students Assembly? What was your experience
        with it? In your eyes, did they have an impact?

    -   How would you describe the culture at UPenn? Does it feel weird
        to be a foreigner (IN CASE HE IS ONE)?

    -   I know it may be different with undergraduate students, but were
        your professors approachable? Did you feel you could as tem
        things or even talk about topics not related directly to your
        classes?

    -   Which part of the UPenn experience do you believe had the
        biggest influence on you? Did you keep in touch with other
        alumni?

    -   What was you favorite part of studying at UPenn?

-   Is there anything you’d like to tell me that I haven’t asked you
    about?

  I would like to ask you some questions I had regarding your time at
  UPenn.

  ADEMÁS DE ESO

-   quería contar sobre un par de proyectos.

-   Contar que estaba interesado en el International Students Assembly


Useful Phrases

-   I was recently waitlisted for the [current year] school year; I am
    writing to express my continued interest in Burr University.

-   Thank you for taking the time to read my application. I know that
    State University is a very selective school, and I'm happy to be
    included on the school's waitlist. I'm writing to express my
    continued interest in the school, and to include some new
    information to add to my application.

-   I'm much happier with these scores, and I wanted to share this
    improvement with you.

-   Thank you so much for you time and consideration. If you have any
    further questions, please let me know. I look forward to hearing
    from you.

-   I understand that this new information may not impact my position on
    the waitlist, but I wanted to share it with you nonetheless. I'm
    still very excited about the prospect of joining the State
    University History Department, and of working with its extensive
    American History archives.

Useful Pages

-   https://www.thoughtco.com/sample-letters-of-continued-interest-4040198

Tips

-   Address the Director of Admissions

Letter

Rev. 1

Dear Mr. Furda,

Thank you for taking the time to read my application. I know that the
admissions process is highly selective and am honored to have been
included in the waitlist. I am writing to reiterate my continued
interest in attending the University of Pennsylvania, which is my first
choice school.

Penn is the perfect place for me, where I could be able to learn
Computer Science interdisciplinarily with other fields, while being
constantly exposed to students and faculty from a terrific business
school, an area in which I am increasingly interested.

(el párrafo anterior es totalmente “vainilla”, no convence a nadie, y
tiene problemas gramaticales, el párrafo siguiente, en cambio, es mucho
más concreto, dice algo. En el anterior, decir que es el perfecto lugar
para estudiar CS es superficial (cualquiera de las top 50 es un lugar
“perfecto” para estudiar CS. Si no tenes algo específico que decir sobre
el programa de CS en UPenn mas vale no decir nada proque quita
credibilidad a tu posicion.

The Warren Center is an institute that embodies my interests, where they
use technology to find patterns and analyze changes in social and
economic systems; information which can then be used to improve these. I
have been specifically following Professor Ungar’s developments and find
fascinating that his past research on algorithms that measure a
population's well-being are now being used to study how to maintain a
healthy mental state during quarantine.

I would also like to provide some further information that may be
relevant to my application. I graduated from high school in December and
have taken advantage of my new free time to take online courses through
edX and the Corporate Finance Institute to improve my understanding of
the inner workings of companies and help me operate my startup. I am
currently finishing a module on Accounting Essentials and about to begin
a module on Introduction to Corporate Finance.

In the beginning of January, I began developing a software solution for
businesses to track the performance of their recycling initiatives while
providing incentives to the general population to bring their plastics
to special treatment plants. We held meetings with possible clients and
prepared for a public launch in March but COVID struck and everything
has been postponed until the situation normalizes.

(Si el tipo no sabe de tu cirugia, no podes empezar un parrafo hablando
de eso. Tenes que primero explicar y tambien usar el tema para darle
forma a tu “imagen”, por ejemplo, explicar que por anos lidiaste con un
problema de salud, cual fue, como eso te limito, como luchaste por
soportarlo y superarlo, etc. Entonces contas algo sobre el tratamiento,
que fue cirujia mayor, que tenes un proceso de recuperacion de semanas o
meses, etc. y que eso mas la cuarentena te ha hecho quedarte en casa y
por lo tanto te pusiste a trabajar en algo.

Tambien te pones a escribir sobre Couponara como si tu interlocutor
supiera de que estas hablando. Tenes que ponerte en el lugar del lector,
ese hombre va a leer 50 cartas como la tuya la manana que llegue, si no
se la haces facil e interesante, no le va a dedicar su tiempo ni va a
recomendar que tu solicitud se mueva de la pila “waiting list” a la pila
“admision”

Como comentario general: ya has tenido bastante experiencia a traves del
proceso de solicitar admision sobre como ponerte en el lugar de tu
interlocutor, ser persuasivo, hacer control de calidad. Tenes que
ponerte las pilas.

I have scoliosis, which has hindered my posture and my health in several
ways. For many years I had to use a plastic vest to stand correctly and
finally this March I underwent spinal surgery to help solve the problem.
I was in bed for a few weeks recovering and just came back home
recently. The first thing I saw on the news was that there were a lot of
small Argentine businesses struggling to survive the crisis caused by
the quarantine.

I have been running a small startup called Couponara since the beginning
of last year, which provides easy-to-implement technological solutions
for small business that cannot afford customized software. Trying to
help, I decided to make all of Couponara’s products free and I am
talking every day with different groups of companies that have formed
during the crisis to help them implement some of Couponara’s solutions.
I hope this will give them a small boost and contribute to overcoming
the crisis.

I remain very excited about the prospect of joining the School of
Engineering and Applied Science and exploring all that Penn has to
offer.

(Esta frase de arriba la pondria como la primera en la carta)

Thank you very much for your time and consideration. If I can provide
any further information, please let me know. I look forward to hearing
from you.

Sincerely,

Iñaki Arango

Rev. 2 + sugerencias de Guille 4/28

Dear Mr. Furda,

Thank you for taking the time to read my application. I know that your
admissions process is highly selective and am honored to have been
included in the waitlist. I am writing to reiterate my continued
interest in attending the University of Pennsylvania, which is my first
choice school. I remain very excited about the prospect of joining the
School of Engineering and Applied Science and benefiting from all that
Penn has to offer.

The University’s Warren Center embodies my interests, I am keen on using
technology to find patterns and analyze changes in social and economic
systems; which can then be used to improve upon them. I have been
following Professor Ungar’s developments and how his past research on
algorithms that measure a population's well-being is now being used to
study how to maintain a healthy mental state during quarantine.

I would also like to provide some further information that may be
relevant to my application. I graduated from high school in December and
have taken advantage of my new free time to take online courses through
edX and the Corporate Finance Institute to improve my understanding of
the inner workings of companies and help me operate my startup. I have
just finished a module on Accounting Essentials and I am about to begin
a module on Introduction to Corporate Finance.

In early January, I began developing a software solution for businesses
to track the performance of their recycling initiatives while providing
incentives for the general population to bring their plastics to
dedicated treatment plants. We held meetings with prospective clients
and prepared for a public launch in March but COVID struck and
everything has now been postponed until the situation normalizes.

In early March, I underwent spinal surgery. I suffer from severe
scoliosis, which has hindered my health in many ways. For many years I
had to wear a plastic vest that held me upright to stand correctly.
Finally last month, I decided to undergo surgery to correct the problem
once and for all. It was a major surgery and I was in bed for several
weeks recovering, but can now proudly say that my condition was treated
and I am ready to face new challenges. I feel as if a huge weight has
been lifted off my shoulders (or my back).

I came back recently from the hospital and the first thing I saw on the
news was how many small Argentine businesses are struggling to survive
the crisis caused by the quarantine. I have been running a small startup
called Couponara since the beginning of last year, which provides
customer acquisition and management solutions for small businesses that
cannot afford enterprise software. Trying to help, I decided to make all
Couponara’s products free and I am talking every day with different
groups of companies that have formed during the crisis to help them
implement some of Couponara’s products. I hope this will give them a
small boost and contribute to overcoming the crisis.

Thank you very much for your time and consideration. If I can provide
any further information, please let me know. I look forward to hearing
from you.

Sincerely,

Iñaki Arango


Please indicate your plans for the summer of 2023. If you have not yet
finalized your plans, please let us know what you hope to do this
summer. (500 words)

Ideas

-   This summer I will be working as a software development engineer at
    Amazon in Seattle.

    -   Design, write and test real software while partnering with a
        select group of experienced software development engineers

    -   Articulate technical challenges and solutions

    -   Handle ambiguous or undefined challenges through abstract
        thinking

-   I am going to be working on my startup during the summer too. We
    just onboarded our fifth engineer, which means that our MVP will
    soon be ready and rolled out. By the time the summer starts, we are
    launching the product together with our clients and partners, so
    there is going to be a need for stronger marketing efforts, and for
    functionality polishing. If development bandwidth is enough, I also
    have planned functionality for adding more services to our platform.

-   Outside of work I have some personal goals for the summer:

    -   Continue learning Mandarin

    -   Go to the gym to continue recovering from surgery

    -   Do independent study of machine learning, or potentially write a
        draft for a textbook on Quant Finance (STAT 170).

-   I still have not receive news regarding my acceptance, but if it all
    goes well, I should be going to Taiwan to teach high school students
    about the basics of probability and statistics, and how they are
    interestingly used in places where we would typically not imagine.

    -   I would be excited to present a lecture on the fascinating topic
        of probability and statistics and how they impact our daily
        lives. The lecture would begin by providing a brief overview of
        the foundational elements of probability theory, including key
        concepts such as independent events, conditional probability,
        and Bayes' theorem.

    -   We would go over the importance of appropriate visualizations,
        and how they can help us make better sense of the data.

    -   Then, we would delve into real-world applications of probability
        and statistics that many people encounter on a regular basis,
        but may not realize the underlying principles at work.

-   I would also come back to Harvard two weeks before the start of the
    summer to receive the Class of 2027 that are going to be part of the
    First-year International Program.

    -   A program for international students that introduce them to
        Harvard and helps them adjust to life in the United States. I
        will participate as a student leader, as one of the three FIP
        parents assigned per family of 10 students. I will also
        participate in the social committee, organizing the all the
        social events for the incoming students.

For the summer I have various plans that align with my different
interests: software development, entrepreneurship, teaching, and
leadership. At the beginning of the summer, I will work as a software
development engineer at Amazon in Seattle. I have not yet been assigned
an organization within the company, so I do not know what team I will
join, but I am excited to design, code, and test real software while
working with experienced engineers.

I also plan to work on my startup, Recyco, as we approach the launch of
our MVP. By the start of summer, we will have already launched our
recycling analytics platform together with our clients and partners, so
we will aim to increase our marketing efforts and polish all the
existing functionality. If the development bandwidth is enough, I would
like to implement some of the upcoming products in the development
roadmap, which includes a marketplace for post-consumer recycled
materials, and a marketplace for recycling credits (similar to carbon
credits, but for recyclable materials).

In addition to my work-related goals, I hope to accomplish some personal
ones as well. I want to resume learning Mandarin and complete an
independent study on machine learning. I will also continue strength
training to recover from spinal fusion surgery. Finally, I would like to
contribute to the writing of an introductory quantitative finance
textbook designed to provide support for STAT 170 students.

I have applied to participate in two teaching programs during August
after my internship concludes. The first one would involve traveling to
Taiwan for two weeks to give lectures to high school students and
organize exciting extracurricular activities for students to enjoy
outside the classroom. My lectures will cover foundational elements of
probability theory, including key concepts such as independent events,
conditional probability, and Bayes’ theorem. I will also dive into
practical applications of probability and statistics that we encounter
daily, such as forecasting weather, predicting disease transmission, and
targeting social media advertisements.

The second program would take place just before the opening of the fall
semester. I would be part of the student leadership team of the
First-Year International Program at Harvard, a one-week orientation
program that welcomes international students from the Class of 2027,
right before general orientation for all students. We introduce them to
Harvard and we help them adjust to life in the United States. Also, as
part of the social committee, I would be involved in organizing fun
activities for the students to meet each other and connect.

Overall, I am committed to engaging in diverse experiences that align
with my interests and goals. Specifically, I will concentrate on
advancing my skills as a software engineer, expanding upon my startup
venture, cultivating personal growth opportunities, sharing my knowledge
and passion for statistics and probability with others, and taking on
leadership roles to mentor new Harvard students.

List up to 2 projects on which you are currently working, or have
recently worked, that tried to solve a problem. Projects can be both
academic and extracurricular in nature.

1.  Recyco

    a.  Brief Description of Project (500 characters)

        i.  Big consumer product companies want to increase the recycled
            plastic content in their products but lack the empty used
            packaging required for the recycling process, and their
            attempts to collect plastic packaging were failing. We built
            a software platform that allowed companies to manage their
            collection efforts digitally. This was paired with a
            consumer-facing application that made recycling easier by
            providing instructions, locations of stands, and even a home
            pick-up system.

    b.  Current Status (400 characters)

        i.  We are currently 2 co-founders and 5 engineers working on
            the project.

        ii. We have a stable ARR of $450K with clients ranging from
            international consumer product companies, such as Unilever
            and Nestle, to local Argentinian companies, such as Molinos,
            the largest branded food products company in the country.

        iii. We are set to launch our platform publicly in two months in
             8 Argentinian cities.

    c.  Key accomplishments (400 characters)

        i.  Negotiating agreements between a national university,
            multiple local governments and private corporations for them
            to collaborate in the establishment of circular economy
            infrastructure.

        ii. Developing the initial version of the platform without
            external funding.

        iii. Providing employment opportunities to more than 5 people.

        iv. Closing contracts worth $650K+ with multiple clients.

    d.  Significant challenges (400 characters)

        i.  Taking the company off the ground without an extensive
            personal network. We reached out to companies for months
            until we were able to talk to decision-makers that
            understood our vision and decided to adopt our product.

        ii. Understanding the perspective of the different stakeholders,
            given that NGOs, government agencies, and private
            businesses, each have their own culture and goals.

    e.  Why was this project meaningful to you? (400 characters)

        i.  8M pieces of plastic are thrown into our oceans every day.
            91% of plastic is not recycled. This is not only a climate
            problem, but also a human one. Recycling workers are more
            than twice as likely to become injured than the average
            worker.

        ii. Both climate and social issues are ones I am very concerned
            about, and wish to help tackle. Recyco is my attempt to
            help, and that is why it is meaningful to me.

    f.  Supplemental information if applicable (links to websites or
        articles etc.) (400 characters remaining)

        i.  https://recyco.in (Old website, new one will be released
            once we leave stealth in about a month or two)

        ii. https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1o36iAb4XWFzY4C1ud1s7ov9R9sDiaQUgLRo99maM9HU/edit?usp=sharing
            (Company presentation for Princeton’s Business Today Impact
            Challenge)

        iii. https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VqZH49tcQ_3CpCnMYLvp76pf-UQjZffP3ff1QZHYzUU/edit?usp=sharing
             (Internal functionality presentation. It is in Spanish but
             can provide a translated version upon request.)

2.  Reindi

    a.  Brief Description of Project (500 characters)

        i.  Reindi is a web platform that allows parents of children
            with disabilities to obtain reimbursement for their medical
            expenses online for free. In Argentina, the current method
            for obtaining reimbursements involves gathering physical
            documentation from the kid’s primary physician and every
            single provider (transport, education, etc.) and taking it
            to the insurer’s office. This is prohibitive to low-income
            families who cannot afford to do it and whose children are
            left without care.

    b.  Current Status (400 characters)

        i.  The MVP of the platform is ready, with the ability for
            parents to invite providers (in and out of network) to join,
            and request the required documentation and signatures from
            them.

        ii. Currently in private beta and being used by the founder and
            a couple of other families. There is a list of doctors and a
            small insurance firm that are waiting for the beta to end to
            adopt the software.

    c.  Key accomplishments (400 characters)

        i.  We have sat face-to-face with the C-suite of Argentina’s 3
            biggest insurance companies and discussed the use of web
            technologies to improve access to insurance for people with
            disabilities.

        ii. Designing an accessible software product that was easy to
            use by parents, regardless of their background or their
            insurer.

    d.  Significant challenges (400 characters)

        i.  The biggest challenges stemmed from the fact that insurance
            companies had no incentive to make the system smoother for
            the families since they would lose money by reimbursing.

        ii. This meant we had to redesign the original product so that
            it would not require the buy-in of insurance organizations
            and could be used by parents, regardless of who their
            insurer was.

    e.  Why was this project meaningful to you? (400 characters)

        i.  Reindi was the first project that taught me the value of
            technology, not only to solve problems, but to connect with
            people on a deeper level, and to understand what is most
            important in their lives. I realized there is nothing as
            fulfilling as building something from scratch, and watching
            how it positively impacts their lives.

    f.  Supplemental information if applicable (links to websites or
        articles etc.) (400 characters remaining)

        i.  I can provide the contact information of José Aberg Cobo,
            founder of Reindi, who can give you more information about
            the project and my involvement. He wrote my recommendation
            letter for college transfer and would gladly provide one for
            the Tech Fellows program.

Please upload a Statement of Purpose addressing the following questions:

-   Why are you applying to the Undergraduate Technology Innovation
    Fellowship program

-   What do you hope to take away from this program?

-   How can you contribute to the learning of your peers?

Please provide specific examples from your educational or professional
experience. (Maximum: 500 words)

Ideas:

-   Why are you applying to the Undergraduate Technology Innovation
    Fellowship program?

    -   I resonate with prototype of who the program is pointed towards.
        Two years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: come to the
        U.S., learn as much as we can, connect with people from all
        over, develop ourselves professionally, and then return to
        Argentina to help our country attain sustainable growth.

    -   My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice
        University. I then transferred to Harvard in search of an
        atmosphere where students were both passionate about
        technological innovation and who were anxious to materialize
        tier innovations through startups.

    -   Throughout high school, my gap year, and my time in college, I
        have worked on a series of startups that all aim to solve issues
        affecting society. To me, it is equally as important that a
        venture can sustain itself financially through time as its
        ability to generate a positive effect in society.

    -   Talk about previous startups here.

    -   Next summer I would like to work in a technology company focused
        on AI development, such as OpenAI or C3, to learn more about the
        ways we can apply the new and exciting models coming out every
        day to traditionally unappealing that significantly impact our
        economy and standards of living, such as agriculture,
        construction, and healthcare.

    -   I resonate to the stereotype? To which the program is offered

        -   Talk about Reindi, Rutd, Glos, Recyco and how they have
            tackled social issues and have gone beyond just looking for
            an opportunity to make money.

        -   They attempt to solve a societal issue -> Life goal ->
            Connected to politics

            -   I would like to bring this to my role in Argentinian
                government in the future and the learnings and
                connections from this program would be amazing.

        -   My plan for next summer is to either work at a technology
            company (focused on AI, like OpenAI, C3 AI) and to continue
            scaling my startup.

    -   I want to meet other people with entrepreneurship interests and
        a willingness to carry out these interests.

-   What do you hope to take away from this program?

    -   Varied perspectives of what it is like to carry out
        entrepreneurship projects in different industries and parts of
        the world. This would not only come from the other fellows
        through the monthly seminars, but also from classroom
        discussions of the HBS MBA Elective and through the people I get
        to meet at the business school.

    -   Giving back the learnings, information and knowledge to people
        in high school, where I speak often.

    -   I will be able to also apply my learnings to my startup.

-   How can you contribute to the learning of your peers?

    -   Connect to 1.1. I have worked on many startups like these in the
        past, as well as in bigger companies and investment firms, so I
        combine entrepreneurial, investing, and corporate perspectives.
        I can explain how different ideas/companies/project would be
        viewed through these different lenses.

    -   I can share the challenges that I have come up against in my
        personal and professional journey, and how I have been able to
        overcome them. Short examples:

        -   

    -   My advanced coursework in statistics/data analysis/computer
        science provides me with the tools required to provide
        ideas/leads to my peers on how to take their ideas to practice
        with concrete technologies/analysis techniques. This combined
        with my experience in project management allows me to guide them
        through the PM managements of organaizing their projects.

Semi draft:

-   Why are you applying to the Undergraduate Technology Innovation
    Fellowship program?

-   What do you hope to take away from this program?

-   How can you contribute to the learning of your peers?

    -   I resonate with the type of person the program is targeting. Two
        years ago my 3 best friends and I made a pact: come to the U.S.,
        learn as much as we can, connect with people from all over,
        develop ourselves professionally, and then return to Argentina
        to help our country attain sustainable growth.

    -   My first step was to pursue technical training at Rice
        University. I then transferred to Harvard in search of an
        atmosphere where students were both passionate about
        technological innovation and who were anxious to materialize
        tier innovations through startups.

    -   Throughout high school, my gap year, and college, I have worked
        on a series of startups that all aim to solve issues affecting
        society. To me, it is equally as important that a venture can
        sustain itself financially through time as its ability to
        generate a positive effect in society.

    -   <Talk about previous startups here>

    -   Next summer I would like to work in a technology company focused
        on AI development, such as OpenAI or C3, to learn more about the
        ways we can apply the new and exciting models coming out every
        day to traditionally unappealing that significantly impact our
        economy and standards of living, such as agriculture,
        construction, and healthcare.

    -   I want to join the program to meet outstanding students looking
        to apply their diverse knowledge and problem-solving skills to
        society’s most pressing issues.

    -   Having a small number of students like these be part of a small
        structure program creates a space with a lot of opportunities to
        give and receive.

    -   I look forward to being exposed to the various perspectives of
        what it is like to carry out entrepreneurial endeavors in
        different industries, around the world. These varied views would
        not only come from other fellows through the monthly seminars
        but also from classroom discussions in the elective HBS courses
        and through other professors and students I can meet in the
        business school.

    -   I want to be able to incorporate these learning experiences into
        my future ventures and to bring them back to my different
        communities, so that other people in the College, at Rice, in
        high school, and in the general Argentinian entrepreneurial
        community can also leverage these insights to improve their
        projects.

    -   Likewise, I hope to share my past experiences working in NGOs
        and startups with the other people in the program. Having worked
        in both entrepreneurial and corporate environments, and for a
        venture capital firm, I can provide different perspectives on
        the topics discussed throughout the fellowship, and explain how
        different ideas, companies, or projects would be viewed by
        individuals in these different domains. This can help the other
        students rethink their strategies for how to present their ideas
        to the government or investors, and how to market themselves to
        corporate clients.

    -   I can also leverage my experience as a developer and project
        manager, as well as my coursework in data analysis and computer
        science, to provide other fellows with guidance on how to
        develop web platforms from the ground up. This includes the
        choice of technologies, resources required, and planning.

    -   Overall, the program aligns with my short-term and long-term
        goals of <insert summary of goals> and will provide an
        opportunity to learn from people in the business school, so that
        I can share the knowledge to my other circles, and give back to
        the community.

I am applying for the Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship
program because it perfectly aligns with my passion for technology,
innovation, and entrepreneurship. Two years ago, my three best friends
and I made a pact to study in the U.S., absorb as much knowledge as
possible, connect with people from diverse backgrounds, develop
ourselves professionally, and then return to Argentina to contribute to
our country's sustainable growth.

My first step towards this goal was to pursue technical training at Rice
University. I then transferred to Harvard to immerse myself in an
environment where students were both passionate about technological
innovation and eager to materialize their ideas through startups.
Throughout high school, my gap year, and college, I have been involved
in several startups that aim to solve societal issues. For me, it is
crucial that a venture can sustain itself financially while generating a
positive impact on society.

I have co-founded and worked on various startups, including Recyco, a
waste management startup, and Reindi, a healthcare documents platform on
the Ethereum blockchain. My experiences in these ventures and working
for a venture capital firm have given me valuable insights into the
entrepreneurial and corporate landscape.

Next summer, I plan to work in a technology company focused on AI
development, such as OpenAI or C3, to explore the application of
cutting-edge AI models in traditionally unappealing but impactful
sectors like agriculture and construction.

Joining the program would allow me to connect with outstanding students
looking to apply their diverse knowledge and problem-solving skills to
society's most pressing issues. The small cohort structure fosters a
unique environment for exchanging ideas and experiences.

I look forward to gaining exposure to various perspectives on
entrepreneurship in different industries worldwide. These insights will
come not only from fellow students during monthly seminars but also from
classroom discussions in elective HBS courses and interactions with
professors and students at the business school. I intend to incorporate
these learning experiences into my future ventures and share them with
my communities at Harvard, Rice, and in Argentina, to inspire others to
improve their projects.

In turn, I hope to share my past experiences in NGOs, startups, and
corporate environments with my peers in the program. I can offer
insights into how different ideas, companies, or projects are perceived
by individuals in these domains, helping my fellow students refine their
strategies for presenting their ideas to governments, investors, and
corporate clients.

Additionally, I can leverage my experience as a developer and project
manager, as well as my coursework in data analysis and computer science,
to guide other fellows on developing web platforms from scratch. This
includes making informed decisions on technology selection, resource
allocation, and project planning.

In summary, the Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship program
aligns with my short-term and long-term goals of creating a positive
impact through technology and innovation. The program provides an
opportunity to learn from and contribute to the business school
community, enabling me to share this knowledge with my various circles
and give back to society.

The Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship program perfectly
encapsulates my love of technology, innovation, and entrepreneurship. My
three closest friends and I struck a deal two years ago that we would
study in the United States, absorb as much knowledge as possible,
connect with people from diverse backgrounds, develop ourselves
professionally, and then return to Argentina to contribute to our
country's sustainable growth.

I went to Rice University to get technical training as my initial step
toward achieving my goals. I then transferred to Harvard in search of an
environment where people were both passionate about technological
innovation and eager to materialize their innovations through startups.
Throughout high school, my gap year, and college, I have been involved
in several startups that aim to solve broad social issues. I believe it
is crucial that a venture can sustain itself financially while
generating a positive impact on society.

I co-founded and contributed to several startups, including Recyco, a
recycling analytics company; Reindi, a web-based platform for managing
healthcare reimbursement documentation; and Rutd, an application to help
U.S. veterans identify and apply to appropriate resources nearby. My
involvement in these projects and my time spent working for a venture
capital firm have given me valuable insight into the entrepreneurial and
corporate landscape. Next summer, I plan to work in a technology company
focused on AI development, such as OpenAI or C3, to explore the
application of cutting-edge AI models in traditionally unappealing but
impactful sectors like agriculture and construction.

Joining the program would allow me to connect with outstanding students
looking to apply their diverse knowledge and problem-solving skills to
society's most pressing issues. The small cohort structure fosters a
unique environment for exchanging ideas and experiences.

I look forward to gaining exposure to various perspectives on
entrepreneurship in different industries worldwide. These insights will
come not only from fellow students during monthly seminars but also from
classroom discussions in elective HBS courses and interactions with
professors and students at the business school. I intend to incorporate
these learning experiences into my future ventures and share them with
my communities at Harvard, Rice, and in Argentina, to inspire others to
improve their projects.

In turn, I hope to share my past experiences in NGOs, startups, and
corporate environments with my peers in the program. I can assist my
fellow students in honing their tactics for pitching their concepts to
decision-makers, investors, and corporate clients by providing insights
into how certain ideas, businesses, or projects are seen by people in
these fields.

In addition, I can leverage my experience as a developer and project
manager, as well as my coursework in data analysis and computer science,
to provide other fellows with guidance on how to develop web platforms
from scratch.

In conclusion, the Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship
program aligns with my immediate and long-term goals of generating
positive impact through technology and innovation.

The program requests a letter of recommendation from a faculty member or
supervisor who knows me well and can speak to the following:

-   Academic achievement

-   Leadership potential

-   Having a "builder" orientation with a zeal for solving problems, as
    evidenced by experience in campus laboratories, course projects, and
    a diverse range of innovative or entrepreneurial endeavors

-   Acumen around technology and a passion to learn more

-   Demonstrated interest in a career in technology and innovation or
    applications of technology to other fields


Common App Personal Essay

Message for universities

-   Non-conformist

-   Free thinker

-   Proactive

-   Resourceful

-   Uses tach for the betterment of society

Version 1

Version 2


I fell in love with problem solving after reading “El hombre que
calculaba”

Then I took statistics at school

And then I loved it so much that I decided to TF the next year.

And then I realized that it can be applied to markets and trading

And I wanna learn more about that

I want to learn about the intersection of finance and tech, and quant is
a good way to do that. Statistics made me really interesting in
fstatistics byt I want to combine it with my quant finance

Hispanic and in STEP (Harvard Papi)

SHPE

Discovered market making from a professor at school, and he said I
should look into Jane Street

I fell in love with problem solving when reading the “El hombre que
calculaba”, a book my dad gave me as a gift for my birthday when growing
up. Through the story of a man that traveled through the desert, it
presents a series of challenging problems and riddles that the traveler
encountered while on his journey.

This book sparked my curiosity and led me to be exposed to many
different topics and problems, including

Attending Jane Street's IN FOCUS program presents a unique and
invaluable opportunity for me to immerse myself in the world of software
engineering and trading, areas I am profoundly interested in.

As an undergraduate student from an underrepresented ethnic background,
I am drawn to the inclusive nature of this initiative, designed to
foster diversity and provide equal opportunities for learning and
growth.

The program’s structure, encompassing hands-on activities, mock trading
sessions, and classroom lectures, aligns perfectly with my eagerness to
learn through practical experiences.

I am particularly excited about the prospect of delving deep into
mathematical and financial topics, as well as learning OCaml and
understanding electronic trading systems from the ground up.

Jane Street’s reputation for excellence and innovation in the financial
sector makes this program an ideal platform for me to expand my
knowledge, enhance my skills, and connect with industry professionals
and peers who share similar interests and aspirations.

I am eager to contribute to and learn from this vibrant community,
setting a strong foundation for my future endeavors in finance.

Thank you for considering my application!

Best regards,

Iñaki

As a Latino in finance and the president of the Society of Hispanic
Professional Engineers at my school, I am eager to attend Jane Street’s
IN FOCUS program to strengthen my skills and bring invaluable learnings
back to my community. This program aligns perfectly with my mission to
enhance representation and create supportive spaces for underrepresented
groups in finance.

I am particularly drawn to the program’s hands-on approach, offering
immersive experiences in trading and software engineering. The prospect
of deep-diving into financial concepts, learning OCaml, and navigating
electronic trading systems excites me. I am ready to absorb every bit of
knowledge and experience Jane Street has to offer.

IN FOCUS is not just a learning opportunity; it is a platform to empower
and uplift. By participating, I aim to fortify my capabilities,
contribute to the vibrant IN FOCUS community, and return to my
university armed with insights and experiences to share, fostering a
more inclusive and knowledgeable environment for my peers.

Attending Jane Street's IN FOCUS program presents a unique and
invaluable opportunity for me to immerse myself in the world of trading
and software engineering, areas I am profoundly interested in. Being a
Latino in finance and serving as the president of the Society of
Hispanic Professional Engineers at my school, I am eager to hone my
skills and share the acquired knowledge with my community. I feel a deep
connection to the program’s commitment to underrepresented groups in
finance, and I am excited about the prospect of contributing to and
learning from this vibrant community.

My passion for problem-solving, kindled by a book my father gave me,
aligns seamlessly with Jane Street’s ethos of tackling new and exciting
challenges daily. The firm’s philosophy that "your mind matters"
resonates with me, as I believe in the power of innovative thinking and
relentless curiosity in navigating the complexities of finance.

I am particularly intrigued by the program’s practical approach,
offering in-depth experiences in trading and software engineering.
Learning OCaml and arbitrage, and understanding electronic trading
systems present exciting challenges that I am eager to embrace. I see IN
FOCUS as a unique platform to sharpen my skills, engage with like-minded
individuals, and bring back a wealth of knowledge to empower my
community at the university, fostering an inclusive and informed
environment.

As a Latino in finance and the president of the Society of Hispanic
Professional Engineers at my school, I am drawn to Jane Street’s IN
FOCUS program to enhance my skills in trading and software engineering.
This program aligns with my passion for problem-solving and commitment
to empower underrepresented communities in finance.

Jane Street's ethos that “your mind matters” resonates deeply with me,
emphasizing the importance of innovative thinking and curiosity while
navigating the complexities of finance. I am enthusiastic about the
opportunity to learn about market-making strategies and OCaml, and delve
into electronic trading systems.

These experiences will not only sharpen my skills but also allow me to
bring back valuable knowledge to my community at school. By
participating in IN FOCUS, I aim to foster an inclusive and informed
environment within my society, enhancing our collective understanding
and capabilities in finance.

Thank you for considering my application!

Best regards,

Iñaki


[]


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Morbi facilisis
scelerisque purus dictum hendrerit. Suspendisse id est tortor. Quisque
sit amet leo suscipit ligula dictum viverra sed id lectus. Aenean tempor
ornare tincidunt. Praesent quis vulputate risus. Sed euismod metus
commodo ligula bibendum tincidunt. Suspendisse ac erat sollicitudin,
placerat sapien at, fermentum metus. Curabitur venenatis arcu sed lacus
mattis fermentum. Vivamus vitae eros bibendum, vehicula sapien non,
malesuada ipsum. Vivamus eu est ac orci fringilla pharetra. Integer
efficitur metus quis purus aliquam tristique at et nunc. Phasellus
pulvinar sapien ac mi semper efficitur. Sed in dictum ligula. Aliquam
ullamcorper sodales volutpat.

Suspendisse eget nibh nec arcu ultrices lacinia ac sit amet ante.
Integer mattis congue euismod. Nunc fermentum tempus massa, at viverra
magna facilisis a. Suspendisse malesuada eget velit ut posuere. Etiam
magna velit, pulvinar id feugiat quis, lobortis vitae ipsum. Duis
pharetra mollis nisl, at gravida nulla tempor a. Donec nec erat eu lorem
laoreet rutrum nec vel ante. Pellentesque aliquet in neque vitae
volutpat. Quisque nec nulla mi. Donec eget magna magna. Nullam cursus
commodo sem, id pulvinar lectus tempus ut. Nulla nisi neque, auctor et
tincidunt in, molestie sed risus. Nullam mollis risus eu turpis
ultricies euismod.

Duis rutrum sed magna sed pellentesque. Phasellus tincidunt in turpis
sed aliquet. Vivamus viverra porta pellentesque. Proin rhoncus consequat
metus sed posuere. Ut vestibulum egestas blandit. Quisque at diam mi.
Donec a est at velit euismod interdum vitae a lorem. Etiam a nunc et
lacus tempor consequat. Mauris sodales nibh eget facilisis interdum.
Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur
ridiculus mus. Suspendisse in dolor bibendum, iaculis lectus bibendum,
feugiat lectus. Donec elementum tortor suscipit, egestas nibh non,
placerat leo. Nulla maximus urna a vulputate sagittis. Maecenas id
posuere ligula, a efficitur sapien. Nulla eu metus a erat interdum
eleifend.

Quisque posuere, diam ac suscipit ullamcorper, risus purus rhoncus est,
vel dignissim nisl nunc et ligula. Nullam id leo iaculis, viverra lacus
eget, volutpat dolor. Mauris turpis ligula, rutrum sit amet est ac,
sagittis pellentesque ligula. Etiam ultrices nisl eget est faucibus, id
placerat enim facilisis. Fusce nec libero pretium, molestie massa vitae,
tempus sem. Sed pellentesque dui eget mi ullamcorper suscipit ut nec
nisl. Vivamus elementum sem luctus, suscipit eros vel, lacinia nulla.
Vestibulum blandit neque consectetur varius tempor. Donec id velit
scelerisque, vehicula ligula ut, cursus augue. Duis et est nunc. Donec
non dui neque. Mauris turpis nulla, luctus in volutpat in, accumsan quis
ligula. Vestibulum vel urna vel leo posuere convallis sed eget sapien.
Nulla ipsum nisl, egestas ut odio eget, pretium suscipit arcu. Nulla at
magna laoreet, viverra sem in, aliquet magna.

Aenean tincidunt eget massa in volutpat. Maecenas consectetur felis sit
amet ligula fermentum, aliquet sollicitudin diam fringilla. Vivamus
aliquet non nisi et ultricies. Etiam ac velit quis nisi imperdiet
aliquet nec ac lorem. Nam ligula tellus, ullamcorper nec ante ac, porta
vestibulum libero. Cras eleifend nibh elit, et lobortis odio volutpat
eu. Integer vitae ligula ipsum. Nam tempor tincidunt mi, at dictum risus
pretium ut. Proin consectetur tincidunt neque, ac tincidunt risus
laoreet vitae. Nullam non odio sit amet erat dapibus suscipit in ac
ligula. Mauris hendrerit at enim quis malesuada. Sed nec dui eu tortor
imperdiet facilisis.

Ut imperdiet magna nec vestibulum condimentum. Aenean viverra, lacus
sodales pellentesque laoreet, sapien felis luctus nibh, quis ullamcorper
lorem urna eu ex. Cras vitae diam pretium, iaculis eros id, feugiat
libero. Morbi sagittis sagittis arcu, nec rutrum ex euismod non.
Pellentesque non erat quis eros fermentum consectetur eget et augue. Nam
laoreet enim sed eros congue pellentesque. Quisque ornare tellus ut
sollicitudin iaculis. Cras ac pellentesque ipsum. Suspendisse placerat
mauris ac tempus elementum.

Quisque faucibus, elit condimentum tincidunt laoreet, nibh arcu blandit
neque, ac faucibus tellus nisl a mi. Nullam lacus neque, sollicitudin
vitae placerat vel, porttitor et tellus. Suspendisse non purus in mauris
sollicitudin rutrum quis elementum mi. Quisque sed turpis gravida,
consequat risus rutrum, euismod ligula. Cras semper massa ac erat
iaculis mollis. Integer in ex sodales ipsum imperdiet tempus. Maecenas
rutrum velit in tempus imperdiet. Donec bibendum dictum nunc vitae
porttitor. Curabitur feugiat ipsum vel tortor lacinia, nec consequat
metus lacinia.

Curabitur vitae mollis arcu. Quisque et ultrices ligula, sed porttitor
lacus. Vivamus eget urna odio. Nam sed velit eu arcu pulvinar
consectetur eget ut arcu. Aliquam mauris turpis, malesuada et accumsan
vitae, condimentum nec justo. Aliquam suscipit ac elit eu molestie.
Etiam gravida felis eu dolor commodo, eget congue nisi congue.

Ut sed porta dolor. In aliquam leo id magna consequat eleifend. Sed
faucibus ligula in ipsum dictum, sed imperdiet odio lacinia. Cras
convallis ac magna at facilisis. Donec consectetur, justo id ullamcorper
egestas, arcu purus pharetra lacus, eu convallis dolor velit sed augue.
Morbi molestie tellus tortor, et eleifend sapien laoreet non. Phasellus
ac euismod leo. Duis ultrices nulla ac mollis congue. Phasellus odio
sapien, ultricies id nibh eget, fermentum venenatis massa. Suspendisse
tempor eros quam, vitae dapibus neque hendrerit non. Sed ut congue
tellus, ut varius orci. Vestibulum sed vehicula augue, aliquam sodales
nunc. Integer elementum urna lacus, quis gravida justo imperdiet a.

Morbi eget erat quis nulla aliquet auctor. Cras faucibus augue ut
interdum suscipit. Praesent accumsan commodo mi sit amet lobortis. Donec
aliquam pharetra sagittis. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora
torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Vivamus semper
fringilla orci a pretium. Morbi ut venenatis nibh. Fusce ut sem quis
dolor commodo mattis. Aenean sed porttitor nulla. Ut at cursus est.

Vestibulum venenatis facilisis leo sed pretium. Curabitur rutrum ut
risus eu finibus. Quisque aliquet purus dolor, et iaculis massa
efficitur et. Mauris blandit nec libero in scelerisque. Donec sapien
odio, consequat at nulla at, sodales dictum nisl. Nullam ac tellus
tellus. Nullam efficitur gravida condimentum. Fusce convallis lacus
lobortis porttitor consequat. Mauris vestibulum lobortis tortor, non
ullamcorper turpis maximus interdum. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante
ipsum primis in faucibus. Proin at nisi efficitur, aliquet magna eget,
tincidunt ex. Aliquam justo turpis, ultrices ac lacus id, dapibus
elementum arcu. Integer sodales dui.


Good afternoon,

My name is Iñaki Arango. I am a student at Harvard University that spent
the summer in Houston. I went to the Ion for the first time at the
beginning of June to try out the place.

I canceled my subscription by the end of the summer (I believe August)
since I moved to Boston.

On August I stopped receiving emails from Common Desk, and I never went
to the Ion again. I handled everything in person, including the initial
registration and the cancelation of my subscription.

I recently was going over my bank account statements and saw that I have
$75 charges from CommonDesk for a couple of months after that, including
one on January 1st. Trying to find an explanation I found the Member
Portal (I don't remember having used it before) and tried resetting my
password, but I never get an email with the password reset link, as if I
had never had an account. This makes sense since I handled everything in
person at the reception desk.

I am reaching out to understand what happened and to get a refund for
the charges I received after I canceled the service and moved out of
town.

Thank you in advance for any help that you may be able to provide.

Best regards,

Iñaki


Communication is an essential part of relating to people, and one of the
oldest and most accessible methods of communication within a given
language is writing by hand. In spite of the major effort that has been
expended to bring about a paper-free society, a very large number of
paper-based documents are processed daily by computers all over the
world in order to handle, retrieve, and store information. The problem
is that the manual process used to enter the data from these documents
into computers demands a great deal of time and money (Bortolozzi, de
Souza Britto Jr., Oliveira and Morita, n.d.). These documents may need
to be processed for a number of reasons , among them historical
documentation (e.g. digitally documenting culturally and historically
significant documents and scripts, which until recently were more often
than not handwritten or on print paper), recognition for medical
prescriptions, or for tablet soft-wares to convert user’s handwriting
into digital text.

Thus, the task of handwriting recognition is the transcription of
handwritten data into a digital format, and this task obviously benefits
from data compression. The goal is to process handwritten data
electronically with the same or nearly the same accuracy as humans
(Gunter, n.d).

Basically, handwriting can be divided into two categories, cursive
script and printed hand- writing. Accuracy is the main problem in
handwriting recognition for both categories because of the similar
strokes and shapes some letters may possess. The software may have an
inaccurate recognition of the letter, considering the possibility of the
handwriting being illegible or some other factors (). One notable
problem that makes this task difficult especially in cursive hand-
writing recognition is the fact that there may be no obvious character
boundaries (the start and end of a character); compared to printed
handwriting, it does not have gaps or spaces between each letter to know
the start and stop of recognition per character (). This issue is
compounded for languages like Arabic, where cursive is the only form of
script and there exist ”shortcuts” to further simplify the cursive
script and make writing more fluid (e.g. removing the ”dots”/accent
marks that exist above/below certain letters).

9

Layan:

put in cita- tion later

Kai:

Here you write that these docu- ments may need to be pro- cessed for a
num- ber of rea- sons, but go on

to ex-

This is where the data compression/dimension reduction and eigenface
technique comes into play! In essence, if we have a large data set that
consists of thousands or even millions of images of words (probably
limited to one language), we want to find a way to recognize patterns in
these images. From these patterns, we can then determine which ones have
the most “importance” and attempt to express these images as a weighted
combination of these most important patterns (and thus in a lower
dimension).


dawdawd


Slide 1

-   We created a platform that provides companies with the material they
    need to recycle.

-   We directly connect recycling collectors (be it public or private)
    with end users that have the material, already sorted.

-   INSERT CURRENT SYSTEM

-   The public is able to access Recyco and learn about how to recycle,
    as well as request recyclable pickups from their own home. By
    tracking where every piece of material is across the city we can
    generate optimized routes for the trucks that pick up the sorted
    material and take it straight to the appropriate facilities.

-   Doing this we reduce transportation and sorting costs, and increase
    recyclable material collection volume.

-   Companies buy the service from us and provide it to the collection
    organizations they are working in their recyclable initiatives. They
    empower their vendors in a win-win way.

-   Created platform -> connects

-   Current system with fixed routes -> compresses

-   Public learns to recycle and asks for pickup

-   By tracking -> optimized -> pick and take it to appropriate
    facilities

-   Increase collection volume

-   Give it w orgs they are partnering with in initiative

Slide 2

-   So what is the total market size of this problem, and how can we
    grow our customer base within this market?

-   We are currently targeting companies that have already allotted part
    of their budget to find innovative solutions to their PCR problems,
    but we’ve come to annual market sizes for Argentina and the US by
    using a bottoms up approach based on the number of tons recycled
    yearly and the price companies are willing to pay to track these.

-   To reach these customers we have found that going through industry
    associations is the most time and cost effective way of gaining new
    clients.

    -   We are typically referred to someone in the organization by one
        of our clients, who becomes a champion for our service within
        the association, and organizes for us to present to all the
        member companies.

    -   In this way we spend very little money and time, and we are able
        to get warm intros to multiple potential customers which tend to
        convert most of the time.

    -   These are upcoming associations which we may be partnering with,
        including the one for aerosol producers and the cosmetic
        industry.

-   To these clients we currently price our platform with a mixture of
    SaaS and variable pricing. We charge a fixed monthly fee and then on
    top of that we charge per ton of plastic collected. In the future we
    would like to migrate to a purely variable cost pricing model since
    having a lower barrier to entry opens up the door for smaller
    companies that may not afford to pay the monthly SaaS fee to be able
    to offset their production.

-   We are currently targeting allotted budget

-   Bottoms up market -> total material recycled * $ companies willing
    to pay per ton

-   We’ve found that the best way to reach clients in a cost and time
    effective manner is industry associations

    -   Clients bring us to these and provide worm intros to many other
        potential customers likely to convert

    -   It also enjoys networks effect since clients usually belong to
        many associations

-   Price = mix of SaaS and variable

    -   Fixed fee per month for the platform

    -   Price per ton of material tracked

Slide 3

-   Together, we have finalized contracts with 9 companies across
    Argentina to run a pilot program during the next 18 months in
    partnership with the Argentinian University of Saint Louis.

-   We are partnering with them to collaborate with NGOs and work on
    accessible material that we can use to increase the public knowledge
    of how to recycle.

-   Our clients for this pilot include leading consumer product
    conglomerates such as Unilever, Nestle and P&G.

-   The total budget for the project, including communication, is more
    than a million dollars, around $700k of which are for the platform.
    This is for 18 months, so in terms of annualized returns this would
    represent just under half a million dollars in ARR for the Recyco
    Platform.

-   Together, finalized contracts with 9 clients in Argentina to pilot
    18 months

-   Total budget for projects is more than $1M, which in partnership
    Argentinian University of Saint Louis also public education
    campaigns for recycling

-   This represents around around half mil in ARR for recyco’s platform

-   The clients that have trusted us so far include multinational
    companies such as unilever, nestle and proctor and gamble

Slide 4

-   Having information about the flow of material across its entire life
    cycle will allow us to offer services that do not exist today. We
    will be able to separate the recycling initiatives from the
    companies that want to offset their plastic product or obtain
    recycled material. We will be able to certify Plastic Credits, that
    work similar to Carbon Credits, such that companies can buy them and
    monetarily support the collection and recycling of a certain amount
    of material without them being the ones organizing a recycling
    initiative or them being the ones using that specific material as
    part of their product.

-   Providing a liquid market of Plastic Credits would also increase the
    size of our addressable market significantly given that any company
    that wants to offset their production, regardless of size and
    complexity, can acquire our credits for a relatively cheap cost per
    ton.

-   We are confident Recyco and its platform will drive up recycling and
    cause a positive impact in the world.

-   Doing this will allows to offer services that don’t exist today
    anywhere in the world

-   We will be able to certify “Plastic Credits” from recycling
    initiatives all over the world and sell those credits to any
    company, regardless of their size and complexity (from a cofeeshop,
    to a consumer prod brand), opening up the doors to every company to
    be able to offset the impact of the packaging.

-   We believe this system will drive up recycling and cause a positive
    impact in the world. Thank you.


9 people have to go to the office

We do not trust Chad. He originally said that only one person over 21
had to sign this, but now everybody has to sign. He has changed the
terms of the agreement, which makes us wary of him.

We would like the original honored agreement of the online agreement, if
that cannot be ment, then we are willing to send ONLY ONE person to his
office tomorrow at 8


Matrices

3.1

3.2

3.3


Ejercicio 1 hacé tal cosa

Dalwkdjalwkdj

[]


Front 

Back


Gato:

1.  Tener material escrito con las empresas actuales

2.  La revista Forbes hace muchos eventos donde conecta startups,
    empresas, eventos de medio ambiente. → si uno trae la idea se puede

3.  La red argentina de municipios contra el cambio climático

    a.  Comunicación directa que le llega a municipios que llega a todo
        el país

4.  Medios tradicionales: Infobae, Clarín,

    a.  El municipio acá está avanzando con soluciones tecnológicas

Celes:

1.  Periodistas que tengas presencia en redes (metidos en la tecnología
    y con experiencia en medio ambiente)

    a.  Chulkinet

2.  Sistema de “embajadores”: periodistas que tengan la labor de
    conversar de Recycoin cuando los inviten a eventos

3.  Pensar en una estrategia de redes que permita a las personas
    encontrar el material online

    a.  Página web

    b.  Instagram


Welcome to Rice! Tell us a little about who you are. What are some of
your hobbies, interests, and favorite things?

Hi! My name is Iñaki Arango. I'm a freshman from Buenos Aires,
Argentina. I haven't yet decided what I want to study. I am between
Computer Science, Economics and Cognitive Science. I have been working
in a VC firm for the last (gap) year and all the companies I have seen
really opened my eyes in terms of areas of interest. I find
Decarbonization, Computational Genomics and socially impactful
applications for AI specially interesting.

Outside of school my favorite thing is to hang out with friends. What we
do isn't as important as spending time together. I like going out to eat
and also doing more active things, like playing golf or padel.

I also like to go to the gym, it helps me clear my mind and feel
generally better, both mentally and physically.

Why did you choose Rice University?

I have two cousins who were seniors at Rice when I was applying (the
ones in the picture). They told me many wonderful things about their
experience. One that stood out to me was the residential college system.
I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track and with a
cohort in my high school and I look forward to a tight-knit environment
within which to form meaningful relationships with students in all areas
of study. Another aspect I liked was that Rice's small size encourages
the development of close relationships with faculty. I have benefited
enormously from the mentorship of my teachers in the past and hope to
engage with professors at Rice in similar ways.

Research/Initiative-wise, I was really attracted to the Lilie Lab, since
I have always been interested in entrepreneurship and was, and still am,
creating my own recycling startup.

What are you most looking forward to this year at Rice?

What I am looking forward to the most is meeting new people. I was
surprised during the initial intro calls with other students by the
degree of diversity in terms of origin, culture, language and interests.
I want to be exposed to as much of this as possible to expand horizons
and change the way I look at things. Would love to meet you too, if
you're ever available.

What message do you have for the Rice donors who made your
scholarship(s) this year possible?

First of all, I want to thank you very much. You are the reason I am
able to not only come to Rice, but also to America. I decided to come
here because I saw it as the "land of opportunity", and have really
enjoyed my experience so far, the work I'm doing and the people I've had
the pleasure of meeting.

I would like in the future to do what you have done, and enable the
students that come after me to afford this education. I encourage you to
read the following thread I came across a couple days ago
(https://twitter.com/kevinleeme/status/1422025247105060867?s=21). It
made me reflect about all the people that have supported me all the way
to where I am now in my journey.


Fede

3 carne cortada a cuchillo

1 carne picante

Iñaki

5 panceta y ciruela

Nacho:

- 4 de carne pica

- 1 de jyq

- 1 panceta ciruela

Levin

3 de carne suave

2 jqy

Erlich

1 panceta y ciruela

2 jyq

2 carne picante

Juani birger:

3 carne

Ramas:

3jamon y queso

2 queso y cebolla

Titi

1 carne picante

1 carne cortada al cuchillo

1 panceta y ciruela

Pomi

5 carne picada a cuchillo

Maxi

1 verdura

1 carne picante

1 panceta y ciruela

Echi

2 jamon y q

2 humita

Bruno

4 humita

Santi

2 J y Q

Sofí

2 humita

1 caprese

Gio

2 carne

2 jamon y queso padreee

Jota

2 carne picante


Long Article

Topic

Combining diverse information sources, the study examines how health
professionals treated polio throughout the years, and the related
debates that took place within the medical community. (760)

Summary

The Origins of Polio Provocation

-   Even though sometimes Polio infections could be mild and have no
    effect, other times, it could seriously affect the motor system,
    causing paralysis and even death (760).

-   NFIP was an organization created by Roosvelt to combat Polio
    medically and mediatically. It gathered funds from an annual drive,
    attended mostly by the middle class (761).

-   Using the resources of the NFIP, doctors and researchers were able
    to study more deeply the causes of polio, and the degree of
    influence other factors had in the infection (761).

-   The first factor that was linked to higher polio infections (bulbar
    kind) was tonsil surgery (761).

-   Medical professionals discussed how to balance risk posed when not
    performing a much needed tonsil surgery on a patient with the risk
    of that patient contracting polio in the weeks following an
    operation (762).

-   Dr Gaylord W. Anderson demonstrated that tonsillectomies tripled the
    change of a patient contracting a polio and becoming paralyzed
    (762).

-   The media attention these studies received combined with doctors’
    caution, meant they could no longer perform surgery the same way
    they used to (763).

-   German physicians -> Neosalvarsan injections -> paralyzed in
    receiving limb

-   France -> cholera vaccine -> paralyzed in receiving limb

-   Italy -> small-pox vaccine -> paralyzed in receiving limb

-   The relationship between certain forms of immunization and an
    increase in the risk of becoming the victim of a severe case of
    polio began to become recognized among the European health community
    (763). Similar studies took place in the United States, but were not
    pieced until later, when new English and Australian papers surfaced
    corroborating the previous European claims (764-765).

-   American researched proposed several possible reasons why injections
    increased the chance of paralysis, but none were confirmed to be
    true at the moment. (765)

-   Studies by the New York Health Department later found that many more
    immunizations other than the toxoid-based ones present in the
    original trials also had similar effects (765).

-   After it was determined that the risk of becoming paralyzed by polio
    doubled for two months after a common injection, it was concluded
    that immunizations during polio outbreaks should be postponed until
    they were over to avoid any negative effect caused by the injections
    (766).

Health Risks and Policy Debates

-   While several American news outlets alerted the population that
    injections could increase the risk of contracting polio, parents
    were asked to balance the potential risks of immunization with its
    benefits (766).

-   NFIP, pressured by the public to take a stance, remarked that these
    studies “‘... were based on tentative evidence’”, but nonetheless
    recommended that “‘indiscriminate injections’” be avoided during
    polio seasons (767).

-   The polio provocation theory led public policy and the public to
    become risk averse (767). Due to the increasing evidence supporting
    the theory, medical practices were “adjusted ... to reduce perceived
    risks” (768).

-   Not everyone agreed with the strength of the policy decisions taken,
    but even among the opposition, there was an acceptance of the
    relationship between injections and an increased risk of paralysis
    (768).

-   Even though there was debate on the policy front, both sides were
    united in
    “maintaining the faith in public health programmes” (769).

Polio Provocation and Medical Experimentation

-   Hammon together with the NFIP wanted to study the effect gamma
    globulin had on preventing polio, but that meant injecting
    substances during an epidemic to already healthy children. After
    initial opposition from members of the committee that had to approve
    the study, the permission was granted (770-771), but opposition from
    other researchers prevailed even after the decision was taken by the
    Comittee.

-   For his own peace of mind, Hammon adjusted the procedures to reduce
    the risk posed by the children that would partake in the study
    (772).

-   Even though the aim of the study was to analyze the efficacy of the
    GG against polio, it was disappointing that it did not resolve the
    polio provocation theory (773).

The Refinement and Renaissance of Polio Provocation

Conclusions

Already summarized.

Acknowledgements

Non relevant information

Funding

Non relevant information.

Essay

In “Balancing Risks: Childhood Inoculations and America’s Response to
the Provocation of Paralytic Polio” Stephen Mawdsley, through the
combination of diverse information sources, examines how health
professionals treated polio throughout the years, and the debates that
took place within the medical community (759-760). The author aims to
contextualize the policy decisions taken throughout the twentieth
century regarding polio and show how the focus shifted from precisely
determining the causes of polio to balancing the risks between going off
the path of medical orthodoxy and contracting polio.

The author begins by explaining the effects of polio on the human body,
that range from mild, almost invisible, to seriously affecting the motor
system, causing paralysis and even death (760). He follows with the
history of the NFIP, an organization created by Roosvelt to combat polio
medically and mediatically. It gathered funds from an annual drive,
which allowed researchers to study more deeply the causes of polio, and
the degree of influence external factors had in the infection (761).

The first factor to be linked was tonsil surgery, which led to a higher
risk of contracting bulbar polio (761). The first debates started when
medical professionals discussed whether it was best to perform needed
tonsil surgery or to risk a patient contracting polio (762). The
attention media drew to the issue meant surgery could no longer be
performed how it used to (763).

After a series of studies across Europe, the European health community
began to regnize the relationship between certain forms of immunization
and an increased risk of becoming the victim of a severe case of polio
(763). Similar studies took place in the United States, but were not
pieced until later, when new English and Australian papers surfaced
corroborating the previous European claims (764-765). American
researchers proposed several possible reasons why injections increased
the chance of paralysis, but none were confirmed to be true at the
moment (765). Later studies by the New York Health Department found that
many more immunizations other than the toxoid-based ones present in the
original trials also had similar effects (765). After it was determined
that the risk of becoming paralyzed by polio doubled for two months
after a common injection, it was concluded that immunizations during
polio outbreaks should be postponed until they were over to avoid any
negative effect caused by the injections (766).

Even though at first polio research drew attention, it did not compare
to the media phenomenon it would then become. While several American
news outlets alerted the population that injections could increase the
risk of contracting polio, parents were asked to balance the potential
risks of immunization with its benefits (766). NFIP, pressured by the
public to take a stance, remarked that these studies “‘... were based on
tentative evidence’”, but nonetheless recommended that “‘indiscriminate
injections’” be avoided during polio seasons (767). Mawdsley goes on to
analyze the policy decisions that were taken after the matter
popularized.

The polio provocation theory researches put forward led public policy
and the public to become risk averse (767). Due to the increasing
evidence supporting the theory, medical practices were “adjusted ... to
reduce perceived risks” (768). Not everyone agreed with the radical
nature of the policy decisions taken, but even among the opposition,
there was an acceptance of the relationship between injections and an
increased risk of paralysis (768). Something worth noting is that even
though there was debate on the policy front, both sides were united in
“maintaining the faith in public health programmes” (769).

The author then describes the controversy surrounding a study that a
researcher named Hammon wanted to do together with the NFIP. The goal
was to study the effect gamma globulin had on preventing polio, but that
meant injecting substances during an epidemic to already healthy
children. After initial opposition from members of the committee that
had to approve the study, the permission was granted (770-771), but
opposition from external researchers prevailed even after the decision
was taken by the Committee. Even though Hammon defended the study in
public, in private, and for his own peace of mind, he adjusted the
procedures to reduce the risk posed by the children that would partake
in the study (772). Even though the aim of the study was to analyze the
efficacy of the GG against polio, which turned out to be successful in
acting as a vaccine, it was disappointing that it did not resolve the
polio provocation theory (773).

To conclude, even though it still was not understood the epidemiological
mechanism of polio, by mid-century, the positive correlation between
injections and a higher risk of contracting polio was well known in the
United States, presenting a great advancement from the situation in the
1920s. In the 1990s the mechanism was discovered, but that did not solve
the prevalente issue at the time, which consisted of balancing the risk
of contracting polio with that of forgoing other immunizations in
countries where polio vaccines were not widespread (777).


This video is to promote our recycling management app to the public on
social media and in presentations.

I attached a few screens from the app so that you can get a better idea
of what it looks like. I also attached the brand design package,
containing the logotype, isotype, font and brand color, in case you need
it.

I'd like the voice over to be in American English but I'm open to
suggestions if you believe another alternative will be better suited for
this video.

I saw on the service description that you also offered voice overs in
other languages and was wondering if you could do a Spanish one for the
same video, and what the price would be. It has to be with Argentinian
accent.


Dear Paul,

I am writing to thank you for taking the time to go on a video call with
us and to help us form a strong case for our appeal.

I have just received the financial aid updates on my portal and
appreciate the time the Appeals Committee took to reconsider my
financial aid package, as it is a crucial part of being able to afford
college for my family and me.

Once again, thank you for all the attention and dedication you gave to
our case.

Best regards,

Iñaki





The reading states that Chevalier’s memoirs aren’t accurate and thus
they cannot be used for historical purposes. The lecturer expresses a
contrary opinion, and explains why they are indeed accurate enough to be
considered a historical source of information.

The first point presented by the lecturer to cast doubt on the reading
is that borrowing money that actually mean you are poor. She argues that
people who liquidate their assets, usually have to wait a few days
before the receive the cash for the sale, so if they run out of money in
between the sale and that moment, they may very well need to borrow
money. This does not mean they are poor, but the opposite.

The second point used by the lecturer is that Chevalier usually took
notes of the conversations he had with influential people. This casts
doubt on the statement made by the reading, which says that a memoir
written years after a conversation cannot reflect the topics and
position accurately. Moreover, the lecturer presents the declarations
made by people close to Chevalier, who comment that he usually read
personal notes while writing his memoirs.

The third and final point presented by the lecturer is that Chevalier
most probably did not get the guards at the prison he was at bribed
because there where other much more influential and politically
connected prisoners who were not able to escape that way. This
contradicts the reading which states that Chevalier’s escape through his
prison’s roof was not real and that he was let go by bribed guards.
Besides, the lecturer introduces evidence in the form of Venician
government documents that prove that the ceiling had to be fixed after
Chevalier’s escape, indicating that for some reason, it had broken, most
probably, his escape.

In conclusion, the points made by the speaker contrast with the reading.
The justification for the loans together with information about
Chevalier’s note taking demonstrate that the inaccuracy of the memoirs
is in doubt.

I agree with the statement. I believe it is important for students to
learn concepts in school, and not just memorize facts, even if they are
relevant to the topic in question. I mainly have three reasons for
having this opinion.

The first one is that understanding ideas is very useful, because it
allows students to solve real-world problems that may come up. If, for
example, a student learns about the social uprising during the french
revolution, and understand the role every player had in it being solved,
if a similar problem ever again arises, the population will be more
prepared for dealing with it. If instead, they had just learnt facts
about the revolution, like the number of weapons, soldiers, dates, that
would not be of much use.

The second reason is that nowadays, there is an abundance of readily
available information on the internet, that can be looked up easily with
a search engine. This eliminates the need of having to remember facts
about certain topics because if you understand the idea, you can look up
specific facts you do not remember to be able to overcome the problem
you are facing.

Finally, understanding the core of a topic or subject, the main concepts
behind it, we are able to not only apply them, but also mix them, and
evolve them into new and maybe more promising ideas. With facts, you
cannot do this. Facts are facts and cannot be tampered with. If in
school we just learned facts, science, sociology, anthropology would not
be able to advance.

In conclusion, because of the many advantages presented in the real
world by learning ideas rather than facts in school, it is that I agree
with the statement.


Stakeholder capitalism goes against the bases on which capitalism were
formed, which is that improvement in the economy came

Freedom in a capitalist economy means that no one can tell you what to
do in order to earn money, and no one can tell you how to spend it.
Everything is ultimately up to you. You can make your own choices,
whether you want to go to college, go straight to the workforce, or
become an electrician or lawyer. It’s entirely up to you and what you
plan to do with your life.

Stakeholder capitalism goes against the axioms on which capitalism was
created. Those of freedom of the individual, under which no one can tell
you what to do in order to earn money and no one can tell you how to
spend it, and that of personal incentives, which states that financial
motivation is why people take actions, and that this motivation will
naturally lead the world to a better outcome. In a modern society we can
think about companies as agents, and if we follow the same logic, then
we trust that companies worrying about themselves is the model under
which we will produce the fastest growth and produce the biggest benefit
to humankind.

Jkjkjkjkj

Stakeholder capitalism

Shareholder capitalism can lead to short-sightedness


Wherever there is a human in need, there is an opportunity for kindness.

Based on “Wherever there is a human in need, there is an opportunity for
kindness and to make a difference.” from Kevin Heath (CEO of More4kids)


For pre-seed startups, I think the most important factor is the team.
With a good team, the necessary pivots will occur to align the idea to





Structure

Intro:

-   Briefly describe the Roman empire’s expansion

-   Talk about how the colonies didn’t look similar to Rome, but
    actually quite different.

-   State that Harvard presents an in between because it shares
    characteristics of Roman colonies but it also shares some elements
    of Rome’s architecture.

Body paragraph 1: Planning + Armatures

-   D

Body paragraph 2: Campus as a forum + Activity spaces

-   D

Body paragraph 3: Commemorative or ideological elements (Harvard statue,
capitolium, and church) + Government

-   D

Conclusion:

-   While modern countries in America were founded a long time after the
    collapse of the Roman empire, our culture, our language, and our way
    of designing cities draws heavily from Roman civilization. This is
    something we should appreciate and this class helps with that.

-   That is why from now on, I will consider myself Roman (jk).

Lkjhkjhjkhjhggfghggfdgfghf

hhhh

During the Roman Empire's territorial expansion, many similarly modeled
cities were built across Europe and Africa. Despite being far from these
lands, Augusta Harvardiana shares many similarities with traditional
Roman cities, from its planning and active spaces to its commemorative
and ideological elements. The central yard of Augusta Harvardiana is a
square, like most Roman colonies, which were planned before they were
built, and followed a grid pattern of similarly sized blocks around a
central area.

When Augusta was founded, only a few buildings were initially
constructed within the walls of the yard, including a library, a church,
and a couple of class buildings. The size and grandeur of these
buildings reflect their relative importance at the time. Like the
Romans, the founders of Boston, Cambridge, and Harvard believed religion
was essential and invested heavily in building temples. While there is
only one church at Harvard, in honor of one god, the Romans honored many
gods.

Despite their differences, Christianity and the ancient Roman gods share
some architectural similarities. For instance, the inside columns of the
Memorial Church are of Corinthian style, like the "Round Temple" on the
Tiber, and the outside columns are Dorian style, like many of the
temples on the Largo Argentina.

The commemorative culture of the Romans and Americans also shares
similarities. Just like the Romans, the Americans celebrate the strong
people who led them. Within the walls of Augusta Harvardiana, there is a
statue in honor of John Harvard, the founder of the school. Right
outside, in the Cambridge Common, there is a bigger monument honoring
the bravery of the Founding Fathers. This can be thought of as the
Capitolium of Augusta Harvardiana. One of the gods of the Capitoline
Triad was Jupiter, who was associated with the founding of Rome, since
he had supposedly sent Romulus his blessing of protection before the
city was founded.

Like Roman colonies, Harvard was originally established with only a few
buildings. A wall was built around the first edifications to protect
them, similar to how the Roman colonies built walls around the forum and
other important buildings in the city center. The transitable paths
within these confines form a hierarchical grid, with some main, wider
paths, and some thinner ones. Unlike imperial settlements, the rest of
Augusta Harvardiana experienced organic growth, similar to that of
Rome's. The blocks outside the walls differ in size, and the main roads
project outwards radially from the center, instead of having a
consistent grid.

Despite the differences in growth, there are still many comparisons that
can be made with Roman settlements. One striking similarity is the
interspersed commercial storefronts between residential and academic
buildings, which is common in both Harvard and Rome. Residential and
commercial buildings are scattered throughout, and new and expensive
buildings sit next to older ones.

Two buildings that are central to everyday life at Harvard but are not
inside the city center of Augusta Harvardiana are the Annenberg Dining
Hall and Sanders Theater. As students, they do not go to a market to
purchase food, but they do attend dining halls. Dining halls not only
serve as places to eat, but also as places to socialize, just like they
did in Ancient Rome. Particular to Harvard's dining halls is the fact
that they host only certain classes, which draws a clear distinction
between freshmen and upperclassmen. On the other hand, classes like CS50
are famous for being one of the biggest classes, given at Sanders
theater. The theater, like Roman theaters, blur the social lines and
allow everyone to spend time together.

Harvard, Cambridge, and many cities and countries across America draw
heavily from Roman culture, language, and planning, despite being far
from Rome. Understanding how our culture builds on previous ones and how
our knowledge builds on many generations of thinkers is essential. This
essay should leave the reader with a


Portfolio Theory

Hi! I am a stock market fan and found the paper very interesting. I
recommend moving the mathematical definition of covariance, first-order
condition, and pairwise covariance for after the Qualitative
Introduction section since those concepts are not needed to understand
the introduction and breaks with the flow. It may be better to put it in
the Quantitative Understanding section. I think the rest of the paper is
great and look forward to seeing the final product!

Sports Rankings

I really like the way the introduction is written. For the Basic Example
in the beginning, it might be better to put which team beat which team
and the number of times in a table instead of the current text form. It
makes it a bit hard to parse. My second and last suggestion is to put
the Laplace’s Method as its own big header before Colley Method, because
saying Colley -> “we must first introduce laplace” -> back to Colley is
a bit confusing. You write the narrative so you can introduce the
Laplace method and then build Colley on top of that. I loved everything
else. The explanation of why Perron-Frobenius is important but I imagine
that will be included in the final version. Look forward to seeing the
finished product!

Google’s Page-Rank

I love the topic choice! For section 2.1 I would probably draw a
rectangle or highlight in a color box the definitions and theorems, so
that it is easier to distinguish where one begins and the other one
ends. Before the definitions for Markov Chains, probability vectors,
etc. I would probably add a mini intro of what is probability and
statistics, what is a probability, an event, etc.

Everything else is really well structured and written. Look forward to
seeing the final product!


The Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship program perfectly
encapsulates my love of technology, innovation, and entrepreneurship. My
three closest friends and I struck a deal two years ago that we would
study in the United States, absorb as much knowledge as possible,
connect with people from diverse backgrounds, develop ourselves
professionally, and then return to Argentina to contribute to our
country's sustainable growth.

I went to Rice University to get technical training as my initial step
toward achieving my goals. I then transferred to Harvard in search of an
environment where people were both passionate about technological
innovation and eager to materialize their innovations through startups.
Throughout high school, my gap year, and college, I have been involved
in several startups that aim to solve broad social issues. I believe it
is crucial that a venture can sustain itself financially while
generating a positive impact on society.

I co-founded and contributed to several startups, including Recyco, a
recycling analytics company; Reindi, a web-based platform for managing
healthcare reimbursement documentation; and Rutd, an application to help
U.S. veterans identify and apply to appropriate resources nearby. My
involvement in these projects and my time spent working for a venture
capital firm have given me valuable insight into the entrepreneurial and
corporate landscape. Next summer, I plan to work in a technology company
focused on AI development, such as OpenAI or C3, to explore the
application of cutting-edge AI models in traditionally unappealing but
impactful sectors like agriculture and construction.

Joining the program would allow me to connect with outstanding students
looking to apply their diverse knowledge and problem-solving skills to
society's most pressing issues. The small cohort structure fosters a
unique environment for exchanging ideas and experiences.

I look forward to gaining exposure to various perspectives on
entrepreneurship in different industries worldwide. These insights will
come not only from fellow students during monthly seminars but also from
classroom discussions in elective HBS courses and interactions with
professors and students at the business school. I intend to incorporate
these learning experiences into my future ventures and share them with
my communities at Harvard, Rice, and in Argentina, to inspire others to
improve their projects.

In turn, I hope to share my past experiences in NGOs, startups, and
corporate environments with my peers in the program. I can assist my
fellow students in honing their tactics for pitching their concepts to
decision-makers, investors, and corporate clients by providing insights
into how certain ideas, businesses, or projects are seen by people in
these fields.

In addition, I can leverage my experience as a developer and project
manager, as well as my coursework in data analysis and computer science,
to provide other fellows with guidance on how to develop web platforms
from scratch.

In conclusion, the Undergraduate Technology Innovation Fellowship
program aligns with my immediate and long-term goals of generating
positive impact through technology and innovation.


Hi Stephanie,

I hope you are doing well. Sorry for the delay on my end; I reached out
to some other clubs that it would be great to partner with, and we
decided that post Spring Break would be best to do the event.
Specifically, we will be collaborating with ____LIST CLUBS____. I´ve
CC´ed Rhea Acharya, the President of Harvard WECode on this email who
will be the touch point for the Women in CS organization.

For the event specifics, we were thinking that an ideal date would be
sometime in the week of March 25th, but we would be flexible with moving
it to the week after as well. Our goal is to get more people from
underrepresented groups interested in trading early enough such that
they are aware of Winternship/Week-long opportunities, and also apply
for internships as well as attend related club events. This means that
we would like to be centered around an interesting topic with a low
barrier to entry, so we propose doing a game night. We will have games
that will be social, quick, and don´t depend on English knowledge, but
that have some strategic component, such as Exploding Kittens, Sushi Go,
Jenga, …. LIST

Best,

Iñaki

1.  Goal

    a.  Get more people from underrepresented groups interested in
        trading early enough such that they are aware of
        Winternship/Week-long opportunities, and also apply for
        internships as well as attend related club events.

2.  Ideas

    a.  We need something that is interesting and low barrier of entry.
        Probably should not have “trading” in the title.

        i.  Game night

            1.  Regular games

                a.  Requirements

                    i.  Should be social

                    ii. Should be quick

                    iii. Some of them one should be able to join in the
                         middle

                    iv. Should not depend on English knowledge

                b.  Examples

                    i.  Exploding kittens

                    ii. Sushi go

                    iii. Jenga

                    iv. Codenames / Spyfall

                    v.  Blokus

                    vi. Bananagrams

                    vii. Abandon All Artichokes

                    viii. The Mind

            2.  Trading games

                a.  Figgie

                b.  For Sale

                c.  Ask Simon for card games (non-JS) that we can play

        ii. Estimathon (probably not, too intimidating)

    b.  Has to include food.

        i.  Poke and boba that we had for Figgie event was really

    c.  Potentially include merch.

    d.  We can in the middle do a brief pause to introduce Jane Street.

3.  Pubbing

    a.  Pub tracker

        i.  All freshmen houses

        ii. All the diversity lists

            1.  SHPE

            2.  HSBSE

            3.  WiCS

        iii. SEAS Club mailing lists

             1.  

        iv. All Physics

        v.  All Applied Math

        vi. All Math

        vii. All CS

        viii. All Stat


I had been playing a new game that had just come out with a few friends,
so Discord and WhatsApp were still open. Spotify was playing in the
background, filling the room with music. I knew what drove me forward. I
was set on what I wanted to write about, yet I was reading the lists of
predefined essay prompts. It didn’t make sense, they were supposed to
structure my essay, to support it, but I felt limited, I was trying to
cram my topic into restrictive prompts that pointed to other subjects. I
ignored that fact and kept on reading the list until I found the last
one, the “Create your own adventure” of essays. Recognizing that
choosing one already expressed the idea I was trying to convey, I
clicked it without doubting for even a second and began writing this
introduction. By the time I finished it, I already had an idea about how
I would structure my very own essay.

A few months ago I had a very similar realization to the one I mentioned
in the introduction, but to understand it, we have to go back to my
childhood. When I younger, even before high school, I already liked
taking things apart. It didn’t matter what it was, what was indeed
important was for me to be impressed by what I saw inside said gadget.
By primary school, all household items had been cracked open, and there
was nothing else for me to see, to discover. It was then when I
discovered electronics. They allowed me to marvel at the way a device
worked for much longer and that generated in me an intrigue that I
hadn’t felt before.

After a while of seeing how simple electronics worked, I started
wondering what would happen if I combined them. That’s how some of my
first inventions were born. Out of old PC coolers, I built a boat that I
would follow by walking along the border of the pool. I used the
vibration motors of a Play Station 2 controller to create a simple arm
massager.

With time my project started combining more and more complex components,
and I started watching YouTube videos for inspiration. Once at an
electronics shop, buying the items I needed to build a tesla coil, a
random person in line next to me commented on how what I was building
was quite dangerous, and suggested I researched a name I had never heard
about before: “Arduino”. It turned out to be a tiny computer that
allowed me to interact with all the bits and pieces of electronics I had
encounter until then. I was fascinated. I could tell the computer with
words, kind of strange ones, but words non the least, what to do and how
to interact.

As I delved more and more into programming I started building more
complex projects, but it all started to lose significance for me. I
started forming a routine that had the opposite effect on me than the
one I sought when I started my journey. The routine was like so: I would
have an idea, I would code it as fast as I could, and then I would
almost never touch it again.

It was because I felt this routing forming, that this year I decided to
become what at my school is called Project Manager. I would abstract
from the technical aspect of a project, while still keeping in touch
with it, and drive forward the project with ideas, with a plan for every
team member.

Feeling the difference in excitement between developing short projects
for myself and creating a managing a dedicated team, was what lead me to
find a first few clients and create my own company, an institution that
would allow me to continue doing what I enjoyed in perpetuity.


Dear Admissions Committee,

It is a great pleasure to recommend Iñaki as his teacher and head of
studies. I’ve had the pleasure to have him as a student for the last
three years and to watch him grow from the shy and quiet kid he used to
be to the outgoing and proactive young man he is today.

I have actually known him for 6 years, from way before he entered the
ICT track. Since before entering high school, he came with his father
asking if his interest in technology was going to be met with an
innovative environment. He seemed so full of joy when I showed him some
of the projects that were being worked on by our students.

On his first day of high school, he came up here to the ICT floor to see
what we were doing and showed such a genuine interest in how every
project worked that we invited him to our LEGO Robotics Competition
team. There he showed admirable team working abilities collaborating
with students very different from him, both age and personalitywise. The
year after that, we invited him to our year-long mini-submarines
workshop and he showed surprising persistence being the leader of the
only team who managed to finish their submarine by the end of the
workshop.

Iñaki throughout the years has become proficient at juggling multiple
workloads effectively. Proof of this is that even though he has competed
and PP in the Math, Biology, Science, and Informatics Olympiads, he has
maintained a very high GPA, being in the top 5 since he entered the
school and reaching the top 1 spot this last two years. Iñaki with the
years became proficient at juggling workload. Some of his important
achievements include a bronze medal at the national level in the Biology
Olympiad, a gold medal and bronze medal at a national and international
level, respectively, in the Science Olympiad, and a silver medal at a
national level in the Informatics Olympiad.

Since entering ICT, though, Iñaki has focused greatly on developing his
soft and leadership skills. He became the leader of several activities
and projects, both in school and outside. This last year he became
Project Manager of a few student-initiated projects, tanging from a
blockchain business solution to a navigation app that aids people with
disabilities. His organizational skills and dedication have proved to be
very useful in acquiring clients and forging connections that boosted
the popularity and reach of the projects he manages.

For the last two years, Iñaki has helped the student body of this
institution in several ways. He volunteers some of his lunch hours every
week to help delayed students. He has formed olympiad study groups and
coached several students who were interested in participating in the
Science and Informatics Olympiads.

Iñaki has shown that he does not conform to the limits placed on him by
other people or institutions. From the first year here he has suggested
and helped implement various changes in the coursework. I am proud to
say that many of the improvements we have carried out in ICT in the last
years have been proposed by him.

I am very lucky to have seen Iñaki develop both his soft and hard skills
tremendously for this last 6 years, and to have been chosen to write
this letter of recommendation. I think every college would be thrilled
to have Iñaki as part of their 2020 class and I offer my wholehearted
endorsement of him.

Regards,

Darío Mischener

Head of the ICT Track

ORT Belgrano High School


October 26th, 2019.

To whom it may concern,

I am Iñaki Arango's Math senior-year teacher but I have known him for
six years since I coached him to participate in the National Mathematics
Olympics. I can attest to his academic performance and outgoing
personality.

Academically, he is a very strong student. His performance in my class
has been outstanding. He has always been eager to learn more advanced
math skills, which he immediately manages to use successfully. For
example, at the beginning of this year, while I taught trigonometric
functions he was already seeking clarification on derivation and
integration methods that we would be introduced at the end of the
course. I also know that his sharp analytical skills and his capacity to
solve complex math problems served him well when analyzing the
complexity of algorithms when he competed in the Informatics Olympics.
He will be an outstanding Computer Science student.

I also enthusiastically endorse his application because of his
integrity, open mind, versatility and high motivation. He is very good
at multi-tasking and he will excel in a demanding study environment. I
believe he is a unique candidate because his breadth of experience and
interests provide him with a vision far in advance of his peers. I have
had many long conversations about his desire to develop his talent at an
American university and I can attest to his conviction and his thorough
research about academic programs and lifestyle at US colleges.

Please contact me if you have any further questions.

Best regards,

Prof. Mariano Salguero

Escuela ORT Belgrano

Buenos Aires, Argentin


Hi! My name is Iñaki Arango and I am a Junior studying Computer Science
and Statistics. I was born and raised in Argentina~~, in a small town to
the north of Buenos Aires, moved to the US around 2 years ago for the
start of college~~. In the past I’ve taken STAT 110 and 111, as well as
CS 120, 124 and 252~~, and I am currently taking CS 252 and CS 136~~.

I recently came across this class because, while taking CS136, I was
interested in seeing if any of these results could be applied to voting,
specifically within the context of national elections, and came across
this class. I found the topics very interesting, especially the
Electoral competition week.

With the ongoing election in Argentina with 3 main parties fighting for
power, all with different ideologies, some of the decisions they make,
or the things they say baffle me. I would like to understand more about
what goes behind their strategy from a game theoretic perspective.

~~It would also be good to explore how to generate incentives in a
country such that everyone participates in voting. Even in a country
like Argentina where one has to pay a fine to not vote, only 70% of the
country votes.~~

Thank you for listening and for your consideration.

Goodbye!

Hi! My name is Iñaki Arango and I am a Junior studying Computer Science
and Statistics. I was born and raised in Argentina. In the past I’ve
taken STAT 110 and 111, as well as CS 120, 124 and 252.

I recently came across this class because, while taking CS136, I was
interested in seeing if any of these results could be applied to voting,
specifically within the context of national elections, and came across
this class. I found the topics very interesting, especially the
Electoral competition week.

With the ongoing election in Argentina with 3 main parties fighting for
power, all with different ideologies, some of the decisions they make,
or the things they say baffle me. I would like to understand more about
what goes behind their strategy from a game theoretic perspective.

Thank you for listening and for your consideration.

Goodbye!


All things to do in Vienna

1.  Salzburg and Hallstatt beautiful drive and great towns

    a.  

2.  In Vienna have coffee and Sacher Tort at hotel Sacher near opera

    a.  

3.  A walk thru trip of Opera

    a.  

4.  St. Stephen’s Cathedral

    a.  

5.  Definitely the horse show at the old palace

6.  Enjoy a cruise on Danube

    a.  

7.  Try doing MELK Abbey - a day trip

8.  Albertina art Museums

9.  Rent a city bike with the Nextbike app and ride the Donauinsel along
    the Danube.

10. See the immense Parliament building and Rathaus.

11. Beautiful churches include St Francis of Assisi Church, St Peter's
    Church, Karls Church.

12. My favourite gardens were the Borggarten and Volksgarten along the
    main ring

13. Vienna War Museum

Plans for this trip

1.  Dinner with Kushal

2.  Albertina art Museums

3.  Rent bike

    a.  See the immense Parliament building

    b.  See Rathaus.

    c.  Churhes

        i.  St. Stephen’s Cathedral

        ii. St. Francis of Assisi Church

        iii. St. Peter’s Church

        iv. Karls Church

    d.  Get meal by the Danube

4.  Burggarten

5.  

6.  asdf


Randomized Trials

What are the three major points made in the paper?

-   RCT should be designed with one or few goals in mind to avoid
    vaguely answering multiple disparate questions.

-   Can be classified by:

    -   Study Design

        -   Uncontrolled clinical trials (weak)

            -   No concurrent comparison group exists and controls are
                implicit

        -   Nonrandomized controlled trials (medium)

            -   There is a concurrent control group, but patients are
                not allocated randomly into the two groups.

        -   Randomized controlled trials

            -   Individuals are allocated into two or more treatment
                groups (one of them being control) randomly

    -   Objective and Phase

        -   Not all RCTs are Phase III, but most Phase III studies are
            RCTs.

        -   Randomized trials in Phase I and II studies is sometimes
            seen as more equitable spreading of a drug in limited
            supply.

        -   To speed up development researchers sometimes adopt
            mulip-pahse studies

-   Equipoise

    -   In essence, no more harm that must be done should be done. The
        best “standard treatment” available should be used, i.e., an
        inferior treatment or no treatment cannot ever be used as one of
        the arms in the study.

-   Radomization

    -   Not everyone is in favor.

    -   To protect against unbalanced groups during a random split,
        patients can presorted before being assigned to study groups.
        This reduces randomness, but ensure a more balanced
        distributions of features.

-   Placebos and Double-blinding

    -   When the outcome of an experiment is subjective, it is better to
        prevent biased thinking influenced by a patient’s own knowledge
        that he was treated with placebo drugs. This practice is called
        double-blinding, and the studies are called double-blinded RCTs.

What are the possible future directions of the study?

This is not a study but a summary, so there are no future directions.

What could have been done better?

I believe while explaining the double-blinding of RCTs, they could have
gone more in depth about how you compensate for not being able to double
blind the study when it is physically impossible to do so (certain
treatments the patient is going to know if they had it or no).


What aspects of the Rice undergraduate experience inspired you to apply?

Rev. 1

-   

I want to develop ideas, turn them into solutions and apply them in the
real world to help society advance. I am impressed by the overwhelming
support entrepreneurs receive at Rice. The Liu Idea Lab, together with
competitions such as Rice Launch and 3-Day Challenge seem like
incredible opportunities I can take advantage of to catapult my
progress.

But entrepreneurship isn’t the only thing that caught my eye. I
recognized something in Rice’s Residential College System I liked. Three
years ago I joined the ICT track at my highschool, and every day there
felt like spending time with family. In these three years I’ve grown
much more as a person than ever before. If a family of people all with a
similar mindset had this impact, I can’t wait to see what impact four
years of having a super diverse college family will have on me.

Rev Final (T + G)

I have two cousins who are currently seniors at Rice and have told me
many wonderful things about their experience. One that stands out to me
is the residential college system. I have grown a great deal from being
on a specialized track and with a cohort in my highschool and I look
forward to a tight-knit environment within which to form meaningful
relationships with students in all areas of study. Another aspect I am
looking forward to is the close relationships with faculty that Rice’s
small size encourages. I have benefited enormously from the mentorship
of my teachers in the past and hope to engage with professors at Rice in
similar ways. Finally, when visiting my cousins at Rice I was taken by
how their friends welcomed me and were, in fact, excited to meet a
prospective student.


Curious, creative, resourceful, adaptable, persistent.


REV T y G

I wish I could have been at Bletchley Park in the room with Alan Turing
when he finally cracked the Enigma Machine code.


Rev. 1

When commuting I use an app called Blinkist to listen to the core ideas
of books about business or personal development, and take note of the
ones I like. For entertainment, I often watch romantic comedies or
dramas, and Explained, a show that explains complex topics from various
angles.

Rev. 2

When commuting I use an app called Blinkist to listen to the core ideas
of books about business or personal development, and take note of the
ones I like. For entertainment, I often watch comedies or dramas, and
Explained, a show that analyzes complex societal problems from various
angles.

REV. 3 (T y G)

  I watch sitcoms on Netflix and HBO for fun and Explained, a show that
  discusses social issues. When commuting I rely on Blinkist to hear
  about ideas about business or personal development. I read about tech
  on Wired and Medium. I listen to country, rap and pop on Spotify.


If you are applying to the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences as a
first year applicant, please discuss why you consider Duke a good match
for you. Is there something particular about Duke that attracts you?

-   The important sense to do social good

-   Mxing computer sicnce

-   Entrpereneurship

Rev. 1

My interest in computer science go beyond the merely academical work.
I’ve always been interested in mixing it with knowledge from other
areas, such as biology and economics, so that one I create solutions
that generate a real life impact. I’m excited because Duke has a similar
outlook on computer science than I do, since one can study the major
with emphasis con biology, for example, and the faculty is highly
interconnected to other fields.

It’s also very important for me to be able to translate solutions to the
real world and implement them. I think the concept of entrepreneurship
is crucial for being able to carry out this task, so the I&E Certificate
and Duke in Silicon Valley interested me very much.

Something in particular that attracted me of Duke was the importance
they give to the social impact of one’s developments. I first found this
out while looking at the artificial intelligence section of the CS
department. I was surprised by the “AI for social good” and
“Computational social choice”, they turned out to be a mix of exactly
the two things I want to do, drive forward technological development,
and contribute in a meaningful way to society’s development.

Another course that follows this trend and that I found interesting was
the I&E course “Special Topics: Mission Driven Startup”. One gets the
chance to use everything they have learned, and apply it to solving
pressing nation-wide problems.

Rev. 2

-   COMPSCI 102 Interdisciplinary Computing

    -   COMPSCI 102 is a version of COMPSCI 101 that explores the
        concepts from 101 in the context of natural science, social
        science, engineering and the humanities. There is a required lab
        associated with COMPSCI 102.

    -   Course Description: Introduction to the practices and principles
        of computer science and programming and their impact on and
        potential to change the world motivated by problems drawn from
        natural science, social science, engineering, and humanities.
        Programming using Python, appropriate libraries, and APIs to
        process, analyze and visualize data. Design, implementation, and
        analysis emphasizing abstraction, encapsulation, and problem
        decomposition.

-   Computation + X

-   Duke NUS Computational Biology Research center

-   One Duke a day video

-   Duke at Silicon Valley

Years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came across
an article on the application of a text manipulation algorithm for
analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

Since that day, through the development of various projects, such as a
chemical equation balancer and a patient management software, I
developed a passion for biochemistry and medicine. Columbia’s Computer
Science Department program in Computational Biology presents an
incredible opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I
want to work alongside the likes of Itsik Pe'er, whose research on how
changes to DNA sequencing affect biological processes I am very
interested in.

Moreover, I am excited at the idea of meeting faculty and students
through the Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics and the
other health-oriented departments. With everything I learn from these
opportunities I want to start a company that generates a positive social
impact. Columbia can provide me with the tools necessary to achieve this
through its robust entrepreneurship program.

One of the examples of this support that fascinated me was that of
Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis company that went from idea to
production in twelve months through the participation in the Columbia
Venture Competition, of which I hope to compete in.

An aspect of Duke I believe is really important is that it allows CS
majors and non CS majors to take some CS courses together, which bring
diverse perspectives to the table, fomenting a richer understanding of
the subject. This is also helped by classes such as Interdisciplinary
Computing which will be a great opportunity for me to learn how
theoretical concepts can be applied to the real world, with concrete
examples from the natural sciences to the humanities.

The opportunity to conduct independent interdisciplinary research, under
the guidance of professors who are themselves researching Data Science
as part of Computation+X or AI, will be fundamental for me to understand
how technology can be applied to the industries I0m

Large amount of data needs to be processed, and even more will need to
be in the future. The opportunity to conduct independent research, under
the guidance of professors who are themselves researching data analysis
as part of Computation+X or the Data Science research, will be
fundamental for me to understand how this technology can be applied to
the industries I’m interested in, such as healthcare and finance.

I wish to use these and other developments to start a company that
generates a positive social impact. Duke will provide me with

Columbia will provide me the tools necessary for me to achieve this as
part of the entrepreneurship program. One of the examples that
fascinated me was that of Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis
company that went from idea to production in twelve months through the
participation in the Columbia Venture Competition.

Rev. 3 (con sugerencias de T)

Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
across an article about the application of a text manipulation algorithm
for analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

In the past few years I have created several programs, but its was
through the development of a navigation app for the blind community and
a health reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
developed a passion for applying computer science to health for the
benefit of society.

Duke’s Structural Biology & Biophysics Program offers and incredible
opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I want to work
alongside the likes of Bruce Donald, who is researching algorithms for
building and simulating proteins.

Moreover, I am excited by the opportunity to conduct independent
research hosted by Duke Center for Genomic and Computational Biology. I
have genetic acute scoliosis, and was interested in developing
prediction algorithms for the condition so that the onset could be
prevented.

With everything I learn from these opportunities I want to become an
entrepreneur working on socially-minded tech. Duke can provide me with
the tools necessary to achieve this through its Innovation &
Entrepreneurship program. I am encouraged in this by stories like that
of Transcriptic, a Duke-born biological analysis company that raised
funds after participating in Duke’s Startup Challenge.

Rev. 4

If you are applying to the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences as a
first year applicant, please discuss why you consider Duke a good match
for you. Is there something particular about Duke that attracts you?

I have created several programs, but its was through the development of
a navigation app for the blind community and a health reimbursement
platform for people with disabilities that I developed a passion for
applying computer science to health for the benefit of society.

Duke’s Structural Biology & Biophysics Program offers an incredible
opportunity to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I also want to
conduct independent research hosted by Duke Center for Genomic and
Computational Biology. I have genetic acute scoliosis, and was
interested in developing prediction algorithms for the condition so that
the onset could be prevented.

I have grown a great deal from being on a specialized track and with a
cohort in my highschool and I look forward to a tight-knit environment
within which to form meaningful relationships with students in all areas
of study. Another aspect I am looking forward to is the close
relationships with faculty that Duke encourages. I have benefited
enormously from the mentorship of my teachers in the past and hope to
engage with professors at Duke in similar ways. For example, with Bruce
Donald, who is researching algorithms for building and simulating
proteins.

With everything I learn at Duke I want to become an entrepreneur working
on socially-minded tech. Duke can provide me with the tools necessary to
achieve this through its Innovation & Entrepreneurship program. I am
encouraged in this by stories like that of Transcriptic, a Duke-born
biological analysis company that raised funds after participating in
Duke’s Startup Challenge.


Why do you want to study your chosen major at Georgia Tech, and what
opportunities at Georgia Tech will prepare you in that field after
graduation?

-   []

-   While preparing for the Informatic Olympiads in my junior year of
    highschool I discovered an algorithm lecture series online. I binge
    watched them until I got stuck on an algorithm designed to uncover
    differences between texts. In trying to figure it out I came across
    an article on its application to analyzing DNA sequences of
    individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the
    application of this method across disciplines and challenged myself
    to do the same with the algorithms I was learning. That evening I
    had an epiphany; one of the topics that I was struggling most with
    was balancing complicated chemical equations. I wrote a program that
    applied classic computer science to the balancing problem. I started
    using it in class and shared it with a few friends, who thought it
    was tremendously useful.

  Since that day, I step back at every opportunity and ask myself how
  what I am studying connects to what I know about computer science and
  this connection changes my understanding of the problem.

-   

Rev. 1

Programming is not about coding, it’s about problem solving. One learns
to recognize and understand the trade-offs between several solutions to
a problem and is able to judge which solutions best fits the case. After
years of creating applications for fun and profit, I’ve realized that
Computer Science is the major I love.

Since I found out algorithms could be used to better understand and
develop other areas of knowledge, I’ve been excited about mixing
Computer Science with other disciplines, such as biology and chemistry.
The course on Computing Concepts for Bioinformatics caught my eye, as it
allows me to study exactly what I want. Moreover, the idea of threads in
the major, allows me to concentrate on more practical areas.

Furthermore, I want to take ideas to market, to generate real life
impact. This is why I’d be interested in choosing the Minor in Computing
and Business. I believe it will be a tremendous opportunity to gain the
knowledge required to be able to take ideas to market.

I’ve had the experience of trying to raise a startup from the ground,
and realize how difficult it is. I believe the Innovation Ecosystem, and
specifically the CREATE-X Startup Launch will help me in this regard.

Besides my academic and entrepreneurial desires, I want to have a
healthy mental state both during college and after graduation. That’s
why I wish to be an active member of the Active Minds club.

\\

Inaki: el primer parrafo no tiene ninguna conexion con el segundo. Mas
vale usar lo que escribiste antes, es mas interesante y esta mejor
escrito.

Rev. 2

-   Un programa: Program

-   Un profesor

-   Un centro:

-   Emprendedurismo

-   Un testimonial de emprendedurismo

Years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came across
an article about the application of a text manipulation algorithm for
analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

Later, through the development of various projects, such as a chemical
equation balancer and a patient management program, I developed an
interest in biochemistry and medicine. Georgia Tech’s Petit
Undergraduate Research Scholars program offers an incredible opportunity
to mix my two passions, CS and biochemistry. I want to work alongside
the likes of Itsik Pe'er, who works on how changes to DNA sequencing
affect biological processes.

Moreover, I am excited by the opportunity to intern at the Petit
Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience. With everything I learn
from these opportunities I want to start a company that generates a
positive social impact. Georgia Tech can provide me with the tools
necessary to achieve this through its robust entrepreneurship program.
I’d like to participate especially in the CREATE-X Startup Launch.

One of the examples of this support that encouraged me was the launch of
Droice, the Columbia born drug analysis company that went from idea to
production in twelve months through the participation in the Columbia
Venture Competition, in which I hope to compete.

REV FINAL (G)

Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
across an article about the application of a text manipulation algorithm
for analyzing DNA sequences of individuals from different species. I was
fascinated by the application of this method across disciplines and
challenged myself to do the same with the algorithms I was learning.

In the past few years I have created several programs, but its was
through the development of a navigation app for the blind community and
a health reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
developed a passion for applying computer science to health for the
benefit of society.

Georgia Tech’s Computer Science Modeling & Simulations thread offers and
incredible opportunity to combine CS with other areas of knowledge,
including biology and chemistry. The Department of Biomedical
Engineering program will let me study in depth the relationship between
medical solutions and engineering. I hope to intern with researchers
like Dr. Woon-Hong Yeo to work on unobtrusive brain-machine interfaces.

I’m also excited by the opportunity to conduct independent research in
the Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience through its
Undergraduate Research Scholars program.

Georgia Tech can provide me with the tools necessary to become an
entrepreneur working on socially-minded tech through the Innovation &
Entrepreneurship program. As part of this, I would like to participate
in CREATE-X Startup Launch.


How did you discover your intellectual and academic interests, and how
will you explore them at the University of Pennsylvania? Please respond
considering the specific undergraduate school you have selected.
(300-450 words)

For students applying to the coordinated dual-degree and specialized
programs, please answer these questions in regard to your single-degree
school choice; your interest in the coordinated dual-degree or
specialized program may be addressed through the program-specific essay.

Rev. 1

Two years ago, while preparing for the Informatics Olympiads, I came
across an article on a text manipulation algorithm for analyzing the DNA
sequences of individuals from different species. I was fascinated by the
application of this method across disciplines and challenged myself to
do the same with the algorithms I was learning. Since that day, I step
back at every opportunity and ask myself how what I am studying connects
to what I know about computer science and how potential connections may
change my understanding of the problem.

In the past few years I have created several programs, but its was
through the development of a navigation app for the blind community and
a health reimbursement platform for people with disabilities that I
developed a passion for applying computer science to health for the
benefit of society.

Penn’s research focused on data science presents an incredible
opportunity to do this. I want to work alongside the likes of Lyle
Ungar, whose new algorithms and techniques for measuring the mental and
physical well being I’m very interested in. The department’s research on
medical systems is also something I’d like to witness first-hand because
of their close work with patients in treatment.

Moreover, I am excited at the idea of working under faculty in the
Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences. I believe the work being done
there on the fairness of machine learning algorithms will play an
important role as these algorithms are implemented more and more widely.

With everything I learn from these opportunities I want to start a
company that generates a positive social impact. Penn can provide me
with the tools necessary to achieve this through its Entrepreneurship
and Innovation specialization.

Beyond the classes that are part of the program, I’d also like to become
involved in a startup and participate in the assortment of competitions,
like STARTUP Challenge, and showcases at the Wharton school, that Penn
offers. I am very interested in the possibility of working full-time on
my own project as part of the Summer Venture Award.


What is your favorite type of wine, if you have one? (short)

My favorite one I've tried is a Sauvignon Blanc from Bodega Fin del
Mundo called Postales.

Why are you interested in joining the Wine Society? (250 word maximum)

My family back home enjoys wine quite often but I’ve never gotten to
appreciate what they are drinking as much as I liked. A family friend
recently retired and decided to dedicate his life to his passion, making
wine. He’s taken me to his winery multiple times to try the taste the
different barrels produce and how the wine tastes at each step, but I
could not appreciate the different subtleties. I believe the wine
society would be a good place to learn about wine.

Please share one of your favorite culinary experiences, or a fun memory
you have that involves wine. (250 word maximum)

The first time I ever tried wine was at a winery in Neuquén, Argentina.
I went with my cousins for lunch to a normal-looking restaurant atop a
small mount. After finishing our meal we were bored so we went
downstairs, where there turned out to be a full-fledged winery operating
underground. There was a wine tour going around and we joined to see
what it was all about. After the end of the tour, they had a series of
bottles lined up for everyone to try. It included all the different
wines that were exported from that winery, from Malbecs to Sauvignon
Blancs.

I drank a sip of every wine they offered, but didn’t realize how many
they had lined up, so by the end, I got quite tipsy, without realizing.
It all hit when it was time to go back home and I was having trouble
walking straight down the steps to go from the top of the mount to the
place where we had parked our car. :)


Problem

Witness aims to provide a cost effective alternative of tracking
customers’ within a physical store and their level of satisfaction. They
also use their technology to provide unobtrusive access control
solutions for residences and high-traffic businesses, like gyms and
coworking spaces.

Product

They provide a software platform for

Market

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem
accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab
illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt
explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut
odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione
voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam est, qui dolorem ipsum
quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam
eius modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat
voluptatem.

Team

The company is composed of

Differentiation

Witness uses as

Possible Evolution

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem
accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab
illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt
explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut
odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione
voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam est, qui dolorem ipsum
quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam
eius modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat
voluptatem.

Thesis

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem
accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab
illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt
explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut
odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione
voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam est, qui dolorem ipsum
quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam
eius modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat
voluptatem.


-   Super Summary

    -   awd

-   Dad

    -   ​​convivencia entre judios y romanos

    -   por salvar al romano, se vuelvee el hijo prodigio y se
        especializa en la carrera de caballos

    -   le da agua a jesus

    -   le da agua a los lepros, que estaban fueras de la ciudad

    -   temas para analizar con respecto al valor y la amistad. lo
        libera

    -   - [ ] en roma y en grecia los esclavos no hacian trabajo grupal.
        enorme cantidad de maestros que le daban clase a la clase alta
        eran esclavos. benhur era judio de clase alta, asi que estaba
        bien instruido. lo toma como hijo adoptivo (y deja de ser
        esclavo) a benhur

-   TF Message

    -   

-   Canvas Notes

    -   

-   

Ben-Hur is a classic epic film directed by William Wyler and released in
1959. The film is set in the Roman Empire during the reign of Emperor
Augustus and follows the story of Judah Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince who is
falsely accused of treason and sentenced to life as a slave. The movie
explores themes such as revenge, forgiveness, and redemption, and the
director employs various elements of Roman material culture and history
to emphasize these themes and convey a powerful message.

One of the most notable aspects of Roman material culture that the
filmmaker chose to incorporate into the film is the concept of the Roman
Circus. The Circus was an important part of Roman culture and
entertainment, and the film features several scenes set in the Circus
Maximus, where chariot races were held. The chariot race sequence is one
of the most iconic scenes in the film and is crucial to the development
of the overarching theme of the story. The race is used as a metaphor
for the struggles and challenges that Judah Ben-Hur faces throughout the
movie, and it symbolizes the conflict between good and evil, justice and
injustice.

The director uses the chariot race as a means of highlighting the
character's development, both emotionally and physically. The race
serves as the climax of the story, where Judah Ben-Hur confronts his
rival and former friend Messala, who betrayed him and caused him to be
sentenced to a life of slavery. The race is not just a physical contest,
but also a mental one, where the two characters are pitted against each
other in a battle of wits and determination. Through the race, the
director emphasizes the theme of revenge and its consequences, as well
as the importance of forgiveness and redemption.

Another important aspect of Roman material culture that the filmmaker
chose to incorporate into the film is the concept of slavery. Slavery
was a pervasive and significant part of Roman society, and the film
portrays the harsh realities of slavery through the character of Judah
Ben-Hur, who is forced to endure years of servitude and abuse. The movie
highlights the inhumanity and brutality of slavery, but also emphasizes
the resilience and strength of the human spirit in the face of
adversity. Through the character of Judah Ben-Hur, the director shows
that even in the darkest moments, hope and perseverance can triumph over
despair and oppression.

Religion is another class topic that the filmmaker engages with in the
movie. The film portrays the tension and conflict between Judaism and
Roman paganism, and the character of Judah Ben-Hur is shown struggling
to reconcile his faith with his desire for revenge. The movie emphasizes
the importance of faith and the power of belief in shaping one's
destiny. Through the character of Judah Ben-Hur, the director shows that
even in the face of persecution and injustice, faith and conviction can
provide a sense of purpose and meaning.

The director's choices regarding Roman material culture and history had
a significant impact on the film's presentation and success. The use of
the chariot race sequence as a metaphor for the overarching theme of the
story is a powerful and effective narrative tool, and the scene has
become one of the most iconic in cinema history. The portrayal of
slavery and its impact on the character of Judah Ben-Hur is also a
poignant and impactful aspect of the film, and the movie's depiction of
the tension between Judaism and Roman paganism is historically accurate
and provides a rich context for the story.

In conclusion, Ben-Hur is a classic epic film that engages with various
aspects of Roman material culture and history to convey a powerful
message about the importance of redemption, forgiveness, and faith. The
filmmaker employs the chariot race sequence as a metaphor for the
overarching theme of the story, and the use of slavery and religion as
class topics provides a rich context for the narrative. The director's
choices regarding Roman material culture and history play a significant
role in the film's success, as they emphasize the themes and messages
that the director intends to convey.

The use of Roman material culture in the film also serves to create a
vivid and immersive setting for the story. The film's depiction of the
Roman Empire, with its grand architecture, lavish costumes, and
impressive chariots, creates a sense of spectacle and grandeur that
draws the audience into the world of the film. The use of authentic
Roman locations and sets also adds to the film's historical accuracy and
creates a sense of verisimilitude that enhances the movie's impact.

Overall, the use of Roman material culture and history in Ben-Hur is
instrumental to the development of the film's overarching themes and
narrative. The director's choices regarding the incorporation of
slavery, religion, and the Roman Circus provide a rich and nuanced
context for the story, and the use of authentic Roman locations and sets
creates a sense of authenticity and historical accuracy that adds to the
film's impact. The use of these elements helps to develop the film's
main character, set the tone of the movie, and create a powerful and
impactful message about redemption, forgiveness, and faith.

Because the novel is primarily didactic, intending to teach the story of
Christ and highlight its theological elements, the role of Christ’s life
and death in Christianity is a recurring concept in the novel.

Of particular importance is the spiritual nature of Christ’s mission. As
Jews, Ben-Hur and Simonides anticipate that Christ, as the Messiah, will
conform to their expectation that the Messiah’s mission will necessarily
be political. They base their understanding in the prophecies contained
in Jewish scriptures (256-57) and believe that the Messiah will
overthrow Roman rule in Judea and perhaps even install Jerusalem as the
new Rome ruling over the other nations of the world.

As an Egyptian, however, Balthasar has no preconceived notions of the
Messiah and has intuited the nature of God purely through his own piety.
Because he lacks the preconceptions of Judaism and because his own
salvation would otherwise be impossible, Balthasar understands that the
Messiah’s mission must be on behalf of all mankind, not merely the Jews,
and cannot be political in nature (211-13). As Ben-Hur gets to know
Jesus, Balthasar’s argument begins to convince Ben-Hur, but neither he
nor Simonides truly accept it until they witness the Crucifixion.

A second important theological theme is the necessity of Jesus’ death on
the cross so that he might be resurrected and redeem the world. Several
times during the process of Jesus’ arrest and Crucifixion, Ben-Hur
offers to bring martial aid, but Christ never answers him. Ben-Hur comes
to understand that Jesus’ mission must require Christ’s death and turns
down an offer from his Galilean soldiers to raise a rebellion in his own
name. In this moment, a sort of divine inspiration comes over Ben-Hur so
that he understands that “the death was necessary to faith in the
resurrection, without which Christianity would be an empty husk” (422).

Ben-Hur has witnessed Jesus’ miracles and knows that Jesus could free
himself if he wished. From Jesus’ beatific acceptance of his fate,
Ben-Hur finally comes to accept that the Messiah’s mission is not
political and that his death will mean redemption for the entire world,
not merely the Jews.

Ideas

-   Roman material culture is sprinkled all over the movie and sets the
    tone not only for the scenery but also for some of the recurring
    themes throughout the movie. Those of duty, perseverance, honor, and
    revenge. Religion is also a persistent theme in the movie, and the
    values of the Christian religion are constantly at odds with the
    values of Rome.

-   From the beginning of the movie, Romans are depicted as superior.
    Starting with the scene where Massala defends Romans moral right to
    have invaded Judea, with the reasoning that they

    -   There is an interesting dynamic with Roman’s own portrayal of
        what means to be Roman. The movie shows that Romans took great
        pride in being Roman, and this inflated their ego and gave them
        a sense of somewhat deserved, somewhat undeserved, sense of
        superiority.

        -   According to Messala, it is not by chance that they have
            reached the power that they have. “That village in the Tiber
            was chosen to rule the world.”

            -   “It was fate that chose Romans to civilize the world.
                Their roads, ships connect every corner of earth. Roman
                Law, architecture, literature.”

        -   This can be clearly seen in the beginning, when Messala
            states that he considers Judah Roman, since he holds him as
            someone at the same level.

        -   It is worth noting, however, that it is not the things they
            believed made them superior that actually did, but actually
            a series of bad traits portrayed throughout the movie.

            -   UE: Messala had better chances of winning the chariot
                race because brought a Greek chariot, which had spikes
                on the side that allowed him to beat opponents.

                -   In the same scene, we see how little Romans cared
                    about other people, they were very practical and
                    shallow. Even though people were dying during the
                    race, they wanted it to continue.

            -   Romans will always take advantage when they can. This is
                a recurring theme in the movie. In many scenes, Judah is
                given the opportunity to do something that is morally
                wrong, but that would benefit him in the short and long
                term, yet he chooses not to.

                -   Examples of this include:

                    -   When he is alone in the room with unarmed
                        Messala, he shoots at the wall instead of
                        Messala.

                    -   The boat scene when Judah is freed from his
                        shackled and find the captain in his sleep.

                    -   When the boat is sunk, he saves the Roman
                        captain, even though he did not need to.

                    -   When he Messala is injured after the race, he
                        doesn’t choose to do anything bad to him. “He
                        doesn’t see him as his enemy.”

                -   Related to the Christian value of no death, but of
                    love and forgiveness. Reinforced explicitely by
                    Judah’s wife towards the end of the movie.

        -   Not everything is different however, in both cultures, there
            is a strong sense of duty

            -   TALK ABOUT SENSE OF DUTY

        -   These traits are at odds with fundamental Jewish values.

            -   The “right” of Jewish/Christian people is shown
                throughout the movie too, through the elements
                highlighted above.

            -   These Jewish values can be reunited after Jesus’
                cruxifiction with the famous knowledge from the Bible
                that Jesus died to redeem all humans of their sins,
                regardless of what group they belong to.

    -   Superiority is shown implicitly through

        -   Clothing

            -   Roman characters, regardless of their Roman social
                status, are depicted as superior. They are generally
                draped in togas or show in their legion armor.

            -   Judah and the other Jewish characters dress simply,
                without adornments or jewelry. The little use of jewelry
                on Ben-Hur’s end comes from a place of faith, keeping
                one ring for his wife and one ring for his father.

                -   Maybe expand on this.

            -   The way the Roman dress symbolize their worldly power
                and ambition, while the Jewish dress symbolizes the
                austerity of the Jews and their humility before god,
                which they are always supposed to keep in mind.

        -   Place

            -   There is a stark difference in the scenes that take
                place in a predominantly Jewish environment and a
                predominantly Roman one.

            -   Example: When the Consul returns from his victorious
                fights back to Rome, we can see the circuit that
                victorious commanders did after coming back from battle.
                Throughout the entire scene, we can see the splendor of
                Rome.

                -   FIND SOMETHING IN THE NOTES ABOUT ADORNISHMENTS AND
                    SUCH

            -   The Jewish towns are a lot more modest. Even Ben-Hur,
                who is a prince and a rich man, has a palace that is not
                filled with gold, marble, and other shiny objects.

                -   CHECK SCENE TO POINT OUT SPECIFIC DIFFERENCE

            -   The comparison is the starkest between where the leppers
                live in misery, and the previous scene of the Roman
                Chariot wining.

                -   FIND SCENE AND DO SMALL DESCRIPTION OF LEPPER SCENE

            -   Messala states that his office is “not grim, but
                austere, virtuous and Roman”. He cares about the Roman
                ideals, and following them.

        -   Slaves

            -   Ben-Hur treats his slaves as his equals. His accountant,
                who he repeatedly refers to as his dearest friend is
                legally his slave. The accountant’s daughter, who Judah
                frees without a second thought

            -   By contrast, the depiction of how Romans treat slaves is
                very different. In all the boat scenes throughout the
                movie, the legionnaires are abusing the slaves and treat
                them in an inhuman manner.

            -   While this was not always the reality (there were
                well-educated slaves that did high-class work for their
                masters) it is a tool used by the filmmakers to show the
                difference of treatment that is given to those legally
                inferior to them by both the Romans and the Jews.

    -   It is shown explicitly by the following scenes:

        -   Messala bets 4-1 that he will win against Judah, because it
            is “The difference between a Roman and a Jew”. This happens
            in the baths, a prototypical Roman space.

    -   I seems like this superiority comes at a cost, it is the moral
        values of the Romans that let them achieve the material
        greatness that they have, while it it the moral righteousness of
        the Jewish that bring them long-term wellness and ultimately
        triumph.

        -   Ben-Hur states that he know Messala “well before the cruelty
            of Rome spread in his blood.” He says that “Rome destroyed
            Messala” in the same way that Rome destroyed his family.

-   D

Skeleton

-   Introduction

-   awdawsdsadawasswqeasdas

-   Conclusion

Essay Writing Resources

-   How to Write a Five-Paragraph Essay

-   How to Write an Essay Outline in 4 Steps

-   Toulmin Argument

-   Organizing Your Argument

New Try

Thesis: The director draws from Roman culture and highlights their
opulence, egocentricity and unscrupulousness to demonstrate Roman
oppression in Judea and convey a Christian message.

Christian message: Christians believe that accepting or rejecting Jesus,
and his message of love and redemption, can affect our eternal destiny.
The values are love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness,
faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control^([*]).

Introductory Explanation 1: The director modifies the original novel’s
story of Jesus and peripheral Biblical figures and turns it into the
story of an underdog.

1.  Claim 1: It is likely that, This was done in an effort to make the
    movie more successful.

    a.  Grounds:

        i.  This movie was created by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, a commercial
            studio^([1]).

    b.  Warrant:

        i.  Presumably, commercial studios want profit, for which they
            need a move to be successful.

    c.  Backing: Successful moves are those that apache to wide
        audience, and Americans like a good underdog story.

2.  Claim 2: This was done in an effort to make the religious message
    more clear.

    a.  Grounds:

        i.  The original story of Ben-Hur has many subplots, each with
            its intricacies.^([2])

    b.  Warrant:

        i.  Often a complicated story has to be cut down for the message
            to be effectively conveyed in a short amount of time.

Introductory Explanation 2: Ben-Hur is used to convey the values of
Christianity and the Romans, non-Christian values.

3.  Claim 1: Ben-Hur is used to convey the values of Christianity:
    kindness, and exhibits self-control.

    a.  Grounds:

        i.  There are many scenes where the Romans pick at him, for not
            taking an opportunity to get his way, treating him as weak.
            When Ben-Hur finds Messala in his office, unarmed, instead
            of killing him, he throws his lance into the wall, and when
            he finds sleeping, the Captain of the vessel that had been
            harassing him earlier, he does not kill him.

        ii. Throughout the entire movie, he battles his own thoughts of
            hatred, trying to eradicate them and behave according to
            Jewish morals.

    b.  Warrant: While not depicted as Christian in the beginning, we
        can see his increased faith in Jesus as the Messiah, with the
        culmination at the end of the movie when Jesus’ redemption saves
        his loved ones. It is understood that Ben-Hur becomes a
        Christian from that point onwards.

4.  Claim 2: The story doesn’t care much about the fact that they are
    Roman, because they do not intend to depict the Romans as evil, but
    as Christians as good. Because of that, somewhat generic bad traits
    are the ones displayed in the Romans, even though they draw heavily
    from material culture and real-life events to make these evident

Main Claim 1: Romans are shown as opulent, while the Jewish and
Christians are not.

5.  Subclaim 1: The edifications in the movie highlight the difference
    between Jewish and Roman opulence.

    a.  Grounds:

        i.  When Ben-Hur and the Consul return to Rome after their sea
            voyage, the viewer is presented with one of the most
            magnificent scenes of the movie: the Roman Triumph^([*]).
            Hundreds of soldiers in shiny armor walking through Rome
            with the victorious general in a chariot up front.

        ii. The display of Rome as a white shiny city made of marble and
            gold paints a stark difference with the scenes of the Jewish
            towns, which are less bright, with fewer buildings, most of
            which are made of wood and mud.

        iii. Even when not in the presence of Caesar, the viewer can see
             that Roman residences are made of expensive materials and
             contain expensive items, like the purple carpet in the
             Consul’s residence^([*]).

    b.  Warrant: There is a stark difference between the scenes that
        take place in a predominantly Jewish environment and a
        predominantly Roman one.

6.  Subclaim 2: The clothes in the movie highlight the difference
    between Jewish and Roman opulence.

7.  

TIE BACK

Main Claim 2: Romans are shown as egocentric, while the Jewish and
Christians are not.

1.  Subclaim 1: Messala’s belief about Rome’s right to rule the land
    shows Romans as egocentric.

    a.  When they subjugate others it is a necessary sacrifice.

TIE BACK

Main Claim 3: Romans are shown as unscrupulous, while the Jewish and
Christians are not.

1.  Subclaim 1: Romans’ treatment of slaves shows them as unscrupulous.

2.  Subclaim 2: Messala’s treatment of insurgence reflects his thoughts
    of other tribes (Barbarians because they do not align with Rome -
    Wk7) and Roman brutality (What he says he’ll do to other tribes -
    Trajans Columns - Wk7.15)

TIE BACK

Conclusion:

1.  Drawing from material culture and Roman history is crucial for this
    movie since it is one of the main tools used by the writers and
    director to build the negative image of the Romans.

Religion, Slavery and Purpose through Ben-Hur (1959)

Prompt

Watch a movie that has something to do with Rome. Suggestions are listed
below, but if you have another proposal, please ask about it before
starting on your essay.

You will then write an essay analyzing how the filmmaker chose to engage
either with some aspect of Roman material culture or with a particular
class topic (e.g. religion, slavery, etc.) in the project. How
instrumental is material culture to the development of the film's
overarching theme or narrative? How did choices made regarding it affect
the film's presentation and/or success? What aspects are highlighted (or
not), and why? Does it work towards the development of a main character?
Does it help with the setting of a particular scene? Does it set the
tone of the film at large? How is the chosen topic presented? What
aspects about it did the director chose to include or omit? Why might
they have made these decisions? Try to resist pointing out historical
inaccuracies. (We already know that every movie has them!) Instead,
focus on a main message in the film and how an aspect of Roman material
culture or life is employed to convey that.

-   

Skeleton

-   I am going to write about

Movie Thoughts

-   Religion is a key part of the film. In the initial scene, when
    Masala takes over the Jersualem garrison, the more experienced
    general warns Masala that the people of Judea are not paying their
    taxes, but more important, there is an insurgence of the mind.

    -   Masala recommends supressing it, but how do you suppress an
        idea.

        -   You fight an idea with another idea.

    -   Masala and Benhur get into fight because Masala won’t withdraw
        legions from judea

        -   Masala has change, his quarters are “not grim, austere,
            virtuous, roman” -> comment about this

    -   They treat jews as inferior, and just becaus benhur is grea,
        they consider him roman. They treat religion as a Rebellion,
        against the roman regime

    -   It’s a roman world, you have to become Roman if you want to live
        in it. “That village in the tiber was chosen to rule the world”

        -   It wasn’t just legions, it was fate that chose romans to
            civilize the world. They roads, and ships, connect every
            corner of earth. ROman law, architecture, literature.

        -   Fight against rome is futile, it will only resist in the
            extinisions of the jews.

        -   Masala sees himself as a conqueror, but friendships is over
            that -> roman principle

    -   Emperor builds, turns bricks to marble

-   The people that resent the Romans are not “patriots”, they are
    protesters. The ROman gots chose them to rule, that, not the Jewish
    one.

-   Interesting treatment of slaves, not as workhorses, but as
    asomething that can happend to anyone. The accoutnant is a slave,
    and his daugheter is also a slave. Judah treats his accountant as a
    slave, and he dresses similarly to him, even though he eis a slave.
    He is very well educated (potentially from a previous non-slave
    past)

    -   Daughter is marrying a freeman, who will pay for her “freedom”.
        She didn’t choose to marry him

    -   It’s strange, I never felt a slave

-   Masala does not forgive Ben-Hur for the accident, that killed the
    military person, even though he knew it was an accident, because he
    himself had a tile fall. Messala sentences everyone in the family.

    -   Family will be nailed in crosses in front of him.

    -   Judah is seen as weak, because he is begging, Massala begged
        once and that is it. He asks Ben_hur to kill him, buit he
        refuses violence. The movie portrays him as morally superior,
        but weaker.

    -   Judah asks for god’s help and he receives it. It is Jesus.
        IMPORTANT

-   Judah becomes a slave, a rower (can also talk about change of
    positions). Judah is portrayed as full of hate, and according to the
    Romans, that fuels you, but according to the Jewish, and Ben-Hur, it
    is a bad thing.

    -   Judah didn’t kill him who had the change (the leader of ship).
        The Romans always talk to him as if he should take advantage of
        opportunities to kill them, similar to spear scene with Massela,
        but Judah never does.

    -   According to captain, god has forsaken Judah, he has no more
        power than the images the captain prays to. Captain believes
        that roman gods won’t help him, so no one will help Judah.

    -   “Strange stubborn faith to have, to believe existence has a
        purpose (1:16)”. Roman had a purpose but existence drove it out
        of him.

    -   Ben-Hur always shows caring for others, when the ship was
        sinking , he spent his time trying to free all the slaves that
        he could.

    -   When ship sinks, he frees captain of the ship and doesn’t let
        him commit suicide.

    -   Captain to Judah: “In an eagerness to save you, your god has
        also saved the Roman fleet.”

-   When coming back to Rome, the greatness of Rome, as perceived by the
    Romans and as told to the rest of the Empire, is shown (1:31). This
    is what Massela was referring to in the beginning.

    -   The caesar talk to Judah because he understand that it is
        strange that if he actually had tried to kill the governor, it’d
        be strange if he saved ta Consul.

    -   The greatness is again shown through the spectacles of Rome,
        which paint a very different picture to that of Judea.

-   The Consul, for saving his life, adopts him as his son after having
    received him as a slave, and trains him to be one of the best
    charrioteers of Rome. Judeah becomes the legel heir to his property.

    -   Captain changes his faith “whoever gos are, they take small
        interest in an old man’s hopes.” Judah changes to “They have
        their way”.

-   When going back to Judea, he stops and sees charrioteers in
    training. They are amazed by the fact that he run in ROme, because
    it is seen as a great privilege and top tier, likegoing to a great
    School or coming from a rich country.

    -   “One god I can understand but one wife is not generous.”

    -   The charriotieer convinces Judah to beat Massela in the races,
        since that would ruin his pride, especially when coming from a
        Jew. IMPORTANT -> Judah doesn’t want to kill him, but pride is
        fine

    -   Why not accept god’s wishes?

    -   He is for the first time introduced to the idea of Jesus

-   Judah returns to his empty house, completely desacrated with time.

    -   Accountant is happy to see him again. Even though hi is a slave,
        friendship comes first.

    -   He finds out that his relatives are dead. -> Accountant dies

    -   Forgiveness and love are more powerful than hatred <- comming
        from the woman

-   When going back the scene of Messala’s house, it is adorned with
    everything from Rome. Wherever Romans invaded, they kept their
    style.

    -   Inversion of power, Judah is now Messalah’s boss.

-   The family becomes leppers but they don’t want ester to tell Judah.
    They want him to remember them as they were

    -   Ester loves Judah because he is not changed.

-   Bookmaker goes to a Roman bath, where all the generals are allowed
    them to bet on horses. This is a trap. The bookmaker baits Messala
    into betting 4-to-1 that he wil winn against Judah, a Jew.

    -   “The difference between a Roman and a Jew”.

    -   The boomer purposefully bets a lot.

    -   He then goes back and trains Judah in chariot racing so that he
        can beat Messalah.

    -   Before racing, he is given the star of david.

    -   When the horses are getting prepared before the race, we can see
        how monumental it is, and how adorned the Roman charriots are.

        -   Messalah is mocked for driving a Greek chariot.

    -   The circus is gigantic, in Roman fashion.

    -   The emperor, is there, together with th entire cour

    -   hey dedicate the games to the glory of the Gods and Rome.

    -   We can see they are very practical people because someone dies
        and they just grab him and remove him from the race without
        stopping

    -   Messala using greek chariot to kill ppl.

    -   Messala tried to hit Judah with his leash, but Judah grabs it
        back and hits him, causing him to Messalah to lose the race.

    -   Even though a ROman lost, Judah is crowned the winner.

-   Judah still still sees no enemy in Judah, he does not use hate.
    Judah finds out they are leppers, and he sobs.

    -   There is a juxtaposition between the greatness of the Roman
        empire, and the leppers who live in misery.

-   By the end of the movie, they find the son of god, Jesus, who gave
    him water when he needed it.

    -   God has answered the request

    -   Ben-Hur doesn’t want to listen to Jesus, he want to bgo abc to
        Rom. He has adopted some of the Roman spirit. The person tells
        Judah that he insist on death. Judah is faithful to his father.

    -   Even though they are next to jesus, the promise person, they
        appear to live very poor, which presents a big contrast to the
        room of his father, which is magnificent.

    -   “I knew him well before the cruelty of Rome spread in his blood.
        Rome destroyed messala, the same way Rome destroyed my family.”

    -   With great power, error is great. He chooses to not follow the
        path of his father and not become Consul. He stil identifies as
        himself.

    -   Judah has an internal conflict because he is told by wife to
        follow Balthasars words and Jewish values, the hatred inside him
        makes him want to spread life. He gets out of that rut in his
        head when his wife tells him that he is going to become Messala
        if he continues like that.

-   Judah finds out that Tirzah is dying, and his mother find out that
    Judah knows

    -   They go back to town to look for help and there they find out
        that everyone is gone to look for Jesus’ trial, the young Rabbi
        from Nazareth. He has done nothing to their knowledge.

    -   Except the revolution from the beginning.

    -   During the trial, once again the grandiousness of Roman
        buildings is evident, and the difference in clothing and
        decorations between the Roman and the Jews too.

-   They finally hung Jesus from the cross

    -   The theme of purpose once again intermingles with that of
        religion, where they say that Jesus was brought onto this world
        with the purpose of sending the message, and that he has served
        his purpose.

    -   The storm represents the anger of god against the death of
        Jesus. He is portrayed from various angles in the cross. They
        are cured, since Jesus died to redeem everyones sins. Also the
        water which was also needed in the dry land also comes back.

    -   Everything begans to be fixed again, Judah fixes the Mezuzah in
        the entrance of his home, his relationship with his wife is good
        and he gets to be with his healthy family once again.

        -   There is a stark difference in the scenes that take place in
            a predominantly Jewish environment and a predominantly Roman
            one.

        -   Example: When the Consul returns from his victorious fights
            back to Rome, we can see the circuit that victorious
            commanders did after coming back from battle. Throughout the
            entire scene, we can see the splendor of Rome.

            -   FIND SOMETHING IN THE NOTES ABOUT ADORNISHMENTS AND SUCH

        -   The Jewish towns are a lot more modest. Even Ben-Hur, who is
            a prince and a rich man, has a palace that is not filled
            with gold, marble, and other shiny objects.

            -   CHECK SCENE TO POINT OUT SPECIFIC DIFFERENCE

        -   The comparison is the starkest between where the leppers
            live in misery, and the previous scene of the Roman Chariot
            wining.

            -   FIND SCENE AND DO SMALL DESCRIPTION OF LEPPER SCENE

        -   Messala states that his office is “not grim, but austere,
            virtuous and Roman”. He cares about the Roman ideals, and
            following them.

Essay

-   How instrumental is material culture to the development of the
    film's overarching theme or narrative?

-   How did choices made regarding it affect the film's presentation
    and/or success?

-   What aspects are highlighted (or not), and why?

-   Does it work towards the development of a main character?

-   Does it help with the setting of a particular scene?

-   Does it set the tone of the film at large?

-   How is the chosen topic presented?

-   What aspects about it did the director choose to include or omit?

-   Why might they have made these decisions?

Stories are a powerful medium for conveying ideas as they can capture
the audience's imagination and emotions, leaving a lasting impression
that can inspire, challenge, or provoke thought. Such is the story of
Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince of Judea who in the first century AD fought
Roman oppression in Judea in the first century AD.

The 1959 film “Ben-Hur”, directed by William Wyler is a cinematic
masterpiece that follows the life of Judah Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince, in
the beginning of the first century. It is based on Lew Wallace’s
Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ, one of the most influential Christian
novels of the 19th century, which tells the story of Jesus, as well as
many peripheral Biblical figures. While the novel focused on didacticism
and taught Jesus’ story through Judah’s redemptive arc through piety,
the movie adopted a more modern narrative. Potentially to appease a
wider contemporaneous audience, the director has chosen to focus on the
story of an underdog, which by following the Jewish/Christian god and
his morally righteous teaching, ultimately finished victorious.

Instrumental to an underdog story, is the creation of an antagonistic,
seemingly all-powerful character with whom the underdog will have to
battle to get his way. In the interest of making the Romans look like
the villains of the story, the Director chooses to omit certain positive
aspects of Roman life, and while most of the scenes shown are
representative of the Roman society that we have studied in class so
far, the movie highlights many negative elements and a few positive
ones.

Since they enter the city of Jerusalem for the first time at the
beginning of the movie, every time we see Romans, they are draped in
togas or showing ostentatious legionnaire armor. The military generals
showcase jewelry and colored gear and the way they dress symbolizes
their worldly power and ambition. To contrast their apparent physical
superiority, and to highlight the cost of it, the film shows what
casualties the world had to suffer for them to reach their place.
Messala, a Roman commander, tells the story of how he has had to burn
villages to the ground, and in the beginning, they showcase that failure
to collect taxes is one of the reasons new leadership was brought to
that garrison. This is a good portrayal of how Roman armies were seen in
some of the more rebellious territories of the empire, brutal, harsh,
and privileged.

PUT A CONNECTOR HERE

Another resource that the Director uses to separate the Jews and the
Romans, and give the latter a sense of superiority is the rooms they
inhabit. There is a stark difference between the scenes that take place
in a predominantly Jewish environment and the predominantly Roman ones.
Jews are portrayed as being a lot more modest. Even Ben-Hur, who is a
prince and a rich man, has a nice palace, but it pales in comparison to
the Roman ones. The Roman palaces showcased in the film are white,
shiny, filled with gold, and sparkling decorations. They feature a
varied range of bright colors, which were expensive things to achieve at
the time.

The scenery of Rome when the Consul returns victorious from his sea
battle is splendid. Hundreds of men in military gear walked in synchrony
and were celebrated by the people of the city and the members of
Caesar’s Court. This scene sets the tone for the rest of the film, in
which Ben-Hur, the underdog, is tempted by the Romans with their luxury
but chooses to keep his morally righteous attitude and fight for his
people, and for his loved ones.

To solidify in the viewer the sentiment that the Romans' morals pale in
comparison with the Ben-Hur’s, who represents the Jewish ones, many of
the negative aspects of Roman culture are highlighted through villainous
characters in the film. The main antagonist, Messala, is often used to
convey these negative qualities.

In the very beginning of the film, he is introduced as a childhood
friend of Ben-Hur and an equal, because that is how Ben-Hur himself
remembered him, but quickly it is shown that the Roman ideals have
corrupted Messala’s mind and that he is willing to do anything to get
his way. Even though he was born in Judea, and holds Ben-Hur, a Jewish
Prince, as his brother, he does not doubt about sending soldiers after
any person that disrupts Roman rule. After he finds out that there are
insurgents in the area that oppose the Romans, he asks Judah to reveal
who these people are, so that he can capture them and squander the
ideological movement.

Because the movie wants to establish a clear distinction between the
morals of the Jews (soon to be Christians) and the Romans, Ben-Hur never
matches the level of aggression and hate that Messala had. Every time
Judah is faced with the choice between what is morally wrong, but
beneficial for him, and what is right, he chooses what is right every
time. When he finds Messala in his office, unarmed, instead of killing
him, he launches his spear into the wall. When he finds the Roman
commander that was harassing him sleeping in his cabin, he does not take
advantage of him and later decides to save him when their ship sinks.

Ben-Hur’s moral superiority can also be seen in his treatment of slaves.
His accountant, and advisor, his depicted as a friend and an equal, but
we later come to find out that he is in fact Judah’s slave. Unlike the
Romans, which are shown in the imperial courts to belittle slaves, and
on the military boats to harass them, Ben-Hur treats them with respect
and dignity. When his slave's daughter comes to him and asks for his
approval to marry a merchant, not only does he grant her freedom, but he
asks nothing in return, wanting only for her to be happy in her new
life.

In conclusion, the movie does a great job of highlighting the positive
aspects of the Christian religion, and the negative aspects of Roman
culture to drive home the narrative that one should adopt a morally
righteous attitude, and follow the faith of the one and only God.

CONTINUE HERE

Judah also struggles with not adopting Roman traits, having spent so
much time in presence of Roman loved ones.

While most Roman depictions in the film are in accordance to what we
have studied in class about Roman society, the Director chooses to omit
certain positive aspects of Roman life in lieu of strengthening the
feeling in the viewer that the Romans

sends a clear positive message while effectively engaging with various
aspects of Roman material culture and highlighting themes of duty,
perseverance, honor, and revenge. Through the use of clothing, scenery,
and behaviour, the movie sends the message that one should behave in a
morally righteous manner and that it is those people that ultimately win
in life. The director

THE ORIGINAL NOVEL WAS PRIMARILY DIDACTIC, AND INTENDED TO TEACH THE
STORY OF CHRIST

WHILE THE MESSAGE OF SHOWING THAT CHRISTIAN VALUES ARE BETTER REMAINS,
THE STORYLINE HAS SHIFTED TO A MORE MODERN NARRATIVE: THAT OF AN
UNDERDOG THAT ULTIMATELY WINS

ROMANS ARE PORTRAYED AS SUPERIOR, BUT UNDERSTOOD TO BE INFERIOR THROUGH
THEIR BEHAVIOUR

CRITICAL IS THAT ROMAN FEATURES ARE HIGHLIGHTED IN A NEGATIVE FASHION

DIRECTOR CHOOSES TO OMIT POSITIVE VALUES OF ROMAN LIFE IN LIEU OF MAKING
BEN-HUR LOOK BETTER IN COMPARISON

CONCLUSION

New Essay


Knowledge Graph Infrastructure

The idea would be to construct an ecosystem of tools that is model
agnostic (as much as possible) for people working on models that operate
on top of knowledge graphs. It would address common pain points in the
entire process from beginning to end:

1.  Knowledge graph creation

2.  Knowledge graph management

3.  Model training

4.  Model deployment

5.  Sharing results / Creating end user application

If the ecosystem is cohesive enough, in the future this also makes it
possible for some sort of TDC 2.0 for KG-based models to be built, such
that GNNs, KGs and Explainability modules can be benchmarked and
compared against each other.

Easy deployment of Models operating on KGs (e.g., GNNs, LLMs)

1.  With a couple lines of code, you could incorporate the different
    aspects of a model to the network, to be able to server results for
    end-user applications.

    a.  Knowledge Graph

    b.  GNN / LLM

    c.  Explainability Module

Efficient storage of KGs

1.  Could enable functionality like graph variants and versioning

2.  Being able to store KGs at a very small size, makes it practical to
    generate multiple variants of Prime KG,

Easy displaying

1.  Building a library in a popular framework, such a React, to
    visualize different aspects of knowledge graphs, such as the model
    outputs, score explanations and the graph itself, could be useful
    for building GRAVITY, but also for other end-user applications
    inside and outside the lab.

    a.  Graph viz can be built on top of cytoscape.js (what is currently
        being used in Gravity)

Easy sharing and collaboration (GRAVITY)

1.  A very simple website using the components mentioned above could be
    integrated into the deployment library so that results from a new
    model are immediately shareable through a website and a researcher’s
    collaborators can interact with a new model without having to
    download or install anything. (See more info below)

2.  Displaying the information of a big knowledge graph on the web could
    pose technical challenges, as internet download speeds and browser
    memory caps prevent large files from being downloaded and queried
    directly in a web app. Below are some ideas on how to overcome with
    problem:

    a.  Providing a GraphQL endpoint that the client can query

        i.  Pros:

            1.  Can handle any size of graph

            2.  Can provide a common query language for all clients

        ii. Cons:

            1.  Will require a lot of work to implement

            2.  Will require a lot of work to maintain

            3.  Will require a lot of work optimize

    b.  Shipping the graph in a compressed format to the client for
        almost instant access to the data

        i.  Pros:

            1.  Minimal latency

            2.  No need to pre-think about the types of queries, or a
                query language, because the clients can do whatever it
                wants with the data

        ii. Cons:

            1.  Will eventually not work for graphs of a certain size

            2.  Will require reimplementation of common data queries in
                all clients (although this could be avoided by providing
                a common TypeScript package that performs these)

    c.  Provide HTTP endpoints with predefined functionality and allow
        the person creating the server to make custom endpoints that
        answer a specific question

        i.  Pros:

            1.  Can handle any size of graph

            2.  Can provide a common query language for all clients

            3.  Can provide a way for the server to optimize queries

            4.  The custom query will already need to be implemented, so
                it is an easy way to bypass this

        ii. Cons:

            1.  Will require implementing multiple separate endpoints
                for common queries

PrimeKG

Remaking a data pipeline for PrimeKG that provides reproducible results

1.  This pipeline would query the data sources, adapt it to the PrimeKG
    schema, deduplicate nodes and edges, and store the data in a format
    that can be exported to common relational graph formats (e.g., RDF,
    SQL) and databases (e.g., Neo4j, PostgreSQL)

2.  Triggers could be set up that are manual, cron-based (e.g., once a
    month), or event-based (e.g., a data source was updated, the
    pipeline code was updated)

3.  I was not aware of BioCypher, but a lot of the work has been cut out
    for us, which means what remains would be resting adapters for new
    data sources not currently available, and adding triggers to the
    pipeline. RDF and CSV export have already been implemented. Neo4j
    (most widely used graph database) and Memgraph (fast in-memory LPG
    database - great for integrating with model inference results and
    LLM queries) would be great and we could collaborate on its
    implementation.

Adding a self-constructing component

This component is able to ingest medical/clinical literature and build
on top of the structured knowledge graph foundation to add more
information to it. This could open up the door to a lot more information
at a pace that is higher than other labs / companies / traditional
databases.

1.  Potential text source: FDA clinical approval documents processed in
    collaboration with CZI?

2.  Aside from growing the graph, this system could also be used to
    highlight discrepancies between the recent medical literature and
    the existing knowledge graph, marking them for human review.

3.  Potential implementation:

    a.  We split unstructured sources into small chunks of text that fit
        in a context window.

    b.  We use GraphRAG (Microsoft) to obtain the relevant subgraph of
        the graph currently being edited.

    c.  We use Graph RAG to use the subgraph and combine it with the new
        data to suggest additions or edits to the subgraph.

    d.  These edits are then merged into the larger graph using the
        algorithms form older LLM KG construction methods (e.g., Cosmo).

4.  Alternative implementation:

    a.  Transforming the starting graph into an index graph that
        complies with the GraphRAG requirements.

    b.  Loading text by chunks and continuing constructing the graph
        index.

    c.  Transforming the graph index back into a collection of triples
        that can be exported in standard graph format.

Questions

1.  What value can we provide given this context?

2.  Could we potentially write a paper saying “We are creating PrimeKG,
    after hitting a structured data limit, we created this system for
    extended learning”? We could have a continuously updated KG built on
    top of BioCypher that outputs new versions regularly. We could then
    serve the multiple versions and variants in a compressed format to
    be easy to integrate into new research (Good DX - Developer
    Experience).

Links

1.  Knowledge Graphs + LLMs

    a.  GraphRAG

    b.  Reddit Article

        i.  Knowledge Graphs for RAG

        ii. Structured Knowledge Graph Extraction with Llama Index

    c.  Adding Data to an Existing Graph/Index with GraphRAG

    d.  Building a knowledge graph to enable precision medicine

    e.  Implementing RAG from Scratch

2.  Knowledge Graphs + Bio

    a.  BioCypher

        i.  Library website

        ii. Nature article


1.  What are the possible challenges going into a new institution? How
    would you overcome that? What would you do to engage in a new
    environment?

    a.  I think the two biggest challenges are catching up to core
        requirements and meeting new people, especially initially when
        you don’t know anyone.

    b.  Although Rice also has core and distribution requirements, they
        are not the same as Yale’s. I would need to organize my schedule
        well together with a major advisor to make sure I have enough
        time to complete them while leaving an open enough schedule to
        explore my interests at Yale.

    c.  The second biggest challenge is that of meeting people. Since I
        am transferring as a sophomore, most students already have their
        groups of friends or groups of people who they usually work
        this. I believe the best way to meet new people is to actively
        socialize in common spaces as well as join club or organization
        that align with my interests. I am sure that I will find people
        with whom I click there and with whom I can become great
        friends.

2.  When were you last challenged or stretched by an idea? How did you
    respond?

    a.  I’d say the last time I was stretched by an idea

3.  There are particular needs of communities. What is a particular need
    in your community? What have you done to address it?

    a.  Bureaucracy is something that affects every Argentinian.
        Processes are slow, take multiple steps, and many of them can
        only be performed in person. This is not only a matter of
        inconvenience. A big sector of the population does not have
        enough time to go through all these steps or lack the
        transportation means to get to the government offices where
        these processes are performed. For example, for parents of
        children with disabilities to ask for reimbursements for their
        children’s medical care, they have to go to every single
        healthcare provider, which are a lot for these children, collect
        a thick folder of documentation and then take it to a government
        or health insurenace office in person. Not only is it a hassle
        for every parent, but it is especially worse for low-income
        families, which might not have the means to accomplish this, and
        end up just skipping treatment because they cannot afford it
        without insurance or government subsidies.

    b.  This is exactly the problem I decided to tackle with a parent of
        two children with learning disabilities, José. He reached out to
        me and explained the whole situation. Together we brainstormed
        solutions to build off of his initial ideas on how to solve the
        problem. After various iterations of ideas and software, we
        finally reached one that did not require buy in from the
        government or health insurance companies, which move slow and
        many times do so purposefully to avoid paying reimbursements. He
        now uses the software to gather all the required documentation
        every month and sends it all in just minutes using an intuitive
        interface. Soon we will be expanding the trial to more families
        and to an insurance company that was interested in trying it to
        process reimbursement requests.

4.  Why do you want to attend a school with distributional requirements?

    a.  I believe school is not only the place to learn what you wanted
        to learn going in. It is a place to open your mind and show you
        what you didn’t know you didn’t know. Spending time with people
        from diverse backgrounds and with radically different interest
        does this, as well as taking classes from areas completely
        unrelated to your major. Two of the classes I have enjoyed the
        most so far are Chinese and Dillemas of Society, a writing
        class. Chinese, besides teaching me a new language, which is
        super useful, taught me about a different culture and a
        different way of thinking. In my writing class I analyzed
        weapons policy around the world and proposed a plan for
        regulating the new generation of autonomous weapons. That is
        something I didn’t ever imagine I would be interested in but
        that ended up fascinating me.

5.  Tell us about a time you pursued something academic outside of
    school.

    a.  Last year I saw how much my friends in the architecture major
        were suffering from their first assignment. They were
        complaining that they were asked to perform a very
        time-consuming task in a 3D editor generating shapes, and then
        the teacher would “almost arbitrarily” tell them that something
        looked good or bad. The problem was that it took so long to
        create new models that they could not change it many times to
        grasp what was considered aesthetic and what wasn’t.

    b.  I thought that a program that generated multiple possible
        compliant designs, which could be rated by the professor would
        be helpful for them, since they could have more data points to
        learn what shapes were good and which ones weren’t.

    c.  While working on it, I realized that the task was harder than I
        had imagined and that I didn’t have enough knowledge to do it. I
        hit sort of a wall that I couldn’t get through. This semester,
        out of pure curiosity I started watching linear algebra lectures
        online and it struck me: the problem of making compliant shapes
        could be modeled as a system of equations with less equations
        that variables. That would mean that some variables could be
        randomly chosen, and that would yield a random valid shape.

6.  When was a time you had to listen to others? How did you listen and
    deal with it?

    a.  

7.  Tell us about how you deal with group discussion when there is a
    disagreement?

    a.  I try to take the mediator role generally. I believe that many
        disagreements can start better off the bat if everyone involved
        recognizes where they agree first and they recognize the
        validity of another person’s arguments. I normally try to
        highlight that and then prevent the discussion from getting
        heated in case it evolves further.
